WWII Veteran Transcript
Subject: Donald Dugan
Interviewer: Bobby Alan Wintermute
Tape Number: 01 of 03
Interview Date:
Transcriber:


Transcription Date:



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interviewer: Today is September the fifth, 2008.  It’s Professor Bobby Alan 
Wintermute at the home of Joseph Donald Dugan, and his wife, to conduct a 
preliminary interview with regards to Mr. Dugan’s military service and his 
experiences at Queens College.  Mr. Dugan what was the highest rank or grade you 
held?

Dugan: Oh, I was a corporal. Corporal.

Interviewer: Corporal?

Dugan: Yes.

Interviewer: This was in the United States Army?

Dugan: United States Army.

Interviewer: What particular branch of service were you attached to?

Dugan: I was in the medical department of the United States Army.  For the entire 
time, three years.

Interviewer: What division were you attached to?

Dugan: 75th Infantry Division.

Interviewer: Do you recall the Regiment?

Dugan: 291st Infantry.

Interviewer: Two-Eight-

Dugan: Two-NINE-one

Interviewer: Two-NINE-one. Do you recall the battalion?

Dugan: Well, we switched around, it wasn’t just one, but it was the first 
battalion.

Interviewer: First Battalion? Okay.

Dugan: It was also the third but [?]

Interviewer: I’ll forgo asking you about your commanding officers now, I’ll let 
you gather that, collect that. When did you enlist?

Dugan: I was, I was drafted.

Interviewer: You were drafted?

Dugan: Yes.

Interviewer: When were you drafted?

Dugan: In January 1942. I will get discharge and get, specific dates for you.

Interviewer: How old were you at that time?

Dugan: Nineteen.

Interviewer: And you served until?

Dugan: Uh…

Interviewer: In years?

Dugan: Three, well nineteen forty-five, well nineteen-for-…I’d say 1945.

Interviewer: Okay

Dugan: I was at, it was at the end of the year but [?] Just three years.

Interviewer: Okay.  Where were you conscripted from?

Dugan: Queens Village, New York?

Interviewer: What did you do before your conscription?

Dugan: Just a student.  Student at Queens College.  Graduated from high school, 
and my first year at Queens College, a freshman, I, it was 1942, and I finished 
that and January 42 I was drafted.

Interviewer: What was your major?

Dugan: Economics.

Interviewer: Economics…How do you think that helped you, during your military 
service, or did it help you?

Dugan: Nothing at all.

Interviewer: Didn’t help at all.

Dugan: It was too limited.  I was just a freshman, finished the freshman year, 
shall I, say a side, they announced ASTP at the time, have you ever heard that?

Interviewer: Yes.

Dugan: And I signed it, I took the test, and was accepted for that, and I looked 
forward to being on some campus on the United States, so in the typical army 
fashion, I went to Brooklyn College. So I went to Queens College, City College 
and Brooklyn College. [laughter]

Interviewer: You were conscripted in nineteen forty-two you weren’t involved in 
the earlier: 1940 conscription at all?
 
Dugan: No.

Interviewer: No?...What were your thoughts at the time, about the draft process?

Dugan: Well I, I didn’t object to it, we were at war, I had older brother, who 
was drafted, so I was, it was fine with me.  I had no problem, I finished my 
first year in college, Queens College, and I was ready.

Interviewer: What did you think about it later?

Dugan: No problem, everybody served, it was universal. Wasn’t anybody left out.

Interviewer: I want you to think before your conscription, before your military 
service.  What were the circumstances when you first heard about the attack on 
Pearl Harbor.

Dugan: It was just a news event, I didn’t feel personally involved.

Interviewer: Where were you at the time when you heard?

Dugan: At home with my mother’s house, it was a Sunday, and I was doing my 
homework in the front room upstairs and I had the radio, portable radio on, and 
all of a sudden the announcement came though, we had been attacked, my brother, 
I had an older brother at the time, which will come out, he and I both went to 
Queens College at the same time, and he was up there doing homework too. 

Interviewer: How much older, or younger-

Dugan: Three years older.

Interviewer: Three years older?  Okay.  What was the response of your family, 
including your mother, on hearing the news?

Dugan: You know, just sadness, you know?  Nothing, nothing in particular.  It was 
too huge, it was, everyone was involved.

Interviewer:: Were you, were you or your family expecting that eventually America 
would be involved in the war?

Dugan: Oh, I think they did, we didn’t discuss it, but I think they knew that was 
the situation.  My father, [?] who was in the Army during the war, first world 
war, never went overseas, his brother did, and fought in France, but he didn’t.

Interviewer: What was your families thoughts about the situation in Europe, 
before 1941?

Dugan: They weren’t terribly involved.

Interviewer: But I mean the rise of Hitler and-

Dugan: Oh, you know, we thought that was terrible, and we were opposed to it, and 
hated Hitler and all that business, but there wasn’t much that they could do.  My 
father belonged to the American Legion, and we used to go to affairs for that, 
parades at Memorial Day, and social affairs for my mother and father.

Interviewer: We hear that New York in particular, the New York Area, there was 
more sympathy for what was happening in Britain and in the Soviet Union, then in 
other parts of the country, where there was a stronger isolationist feeling.

Mrs. Dugan: Yes, there was.  And there were people who were, [?] Quincy [?] like 
America First, and you know, and were violently opposed to us getting into the 
war.  And I knew people who were [?] America First and isolationist movements 
that did that, that was true.  But nobody really thought that in my home too and 
my father was pretty educated on certain things having a decent position.  And 
they never thought it would happen, they just kept thinking, ‘this is all over 
there, those people they’re over there.’  But I never, I don’t think my father 
ever, he was concerned, but I don’t think in reality he ever thought that we 
would go to war.

Interviewer: What was more present in people’s minds then? Was it the war, was it 
the economy, economics, jobs?

Mrs. Dugan: Economy?  We’d just come out of a major depression and people were 
unemployed, people were standing on street corners and you see pictures of that, 
that was a fact and people were moving in with family and they had very small 
apartments and food was a big issue and everybody would take in anybody, and you 
know, and everybody had an uncle or aunt living in the house with them, because 
there was no way they could support a household on their own.  I remember Harry 
saying that, they always had somebody really, you said your mother and your 
grandmother moved, didn’t [?] So we didn’t, we didn’t have that, but it was very 
[?] People were making, and we thought it was great you know when the war was, I 
mean, before the war when the depression was over, in the mid 30s, late 30s, 
people started making twenty dollars a week, they thought it was like twenty 
million, cause there was no money, and there was no relief, you understand, there 
was no welfare, there was some relief if you were probably starving to death.  
But there were no, there was no help for it.  Houses were being lost, you think 
this is bad you should have seen this thing.  All kinds of homes were being 
foreclosed people were closing the door and that’s that.

Interviewer: Well let’s shift back then to the military service part.

Dugan: Okay.
 
Interviewer: What were your initial thoughts, upon actually going into the army?

Dugan: It’s hard to recall, I wasn’t, it was something I expected, especially 
since my older brother had already been drafted and I, was concerned about what 
to expect, but I wasn’t upset to much or any or, I knew I was going to finish my 
freshman year at college, that was more important to me then it the then going 
into the army and took my time.  It wasn’t, it wasn’t a dramatic kind of a 
situation, just meant as a, the day came, I went on, down to the Long Island Rail 
Road, got on the train and into New York to get grouped and went back out to Camp 
up and there I was in the service.

Interviewer: How did your family take to your leaving?

Dugan: No problem.  They didn’t anticipate any anything dangerous, didn’t turn out 
that way, but…
 
Interviewer: You mentioned Camp Upton, is that where you conducted your training?

Dugan: No, no, that was, just and induction center.

Interviewer: Ah.

Dugan: The induction center was Camp Upton and I went from Camp Upton to 
training center number five in Kurns, Utah, on the western side of Salt Lake City.

Interviewer: What specialties were you trained in?

Dugan: Just as a medic, and there was very little training. It was ridiculous.

Interviewer: Like can you detail that? I mean, what was your?

Dugan: Almost nothing, I mean it was ridiculous, and the way it turned out, I 
didn’t need it.  All I needed when I was in the service was litter bearers, guys 
to picked the wounded, carry them to the aid station, and that was it…Although, 
excuse me, when I was trained as a dental technician, here I was in the medics 
nothing to say about the situation, but I was, I was detailed to…a dental 
situation.  Went to a dental technician school.

Interviewer: Where was that at?

Dugan: In Fort Benjamin Harrison, Indiana. Near Evansville.

Interviewer: Did you volunteer for any voluntary additional training, or were 
thinking of Ranger school?

Dugan: Well, no, no, I never did. 

Interviewer: And I’m going to a leave a lot of this for you, to examine [?].  
Now you mentioned you were enrolled in the ASTP, and you attended it where?

Dugan: Brooklyn.
 
Interviewer: Brooklyn College. How’d you feel about its cancelation?

Dugan: We sort of expected in.  We knew.  We knew they were breaking down all 
those programs.  They broke them all down.  Air Cadets, those were the guys 
that really suffered.  They had the uniforms, officers uniforms, you know it 
really looked, like, great, but they were put into the infantry, like everybody 
else.

Interviewer: Did your training prepare you at all, for your service overseas?

Dugan: Very little. My job. 

Interviewer: Even your basic training?

Dugan: I was a litter bearer, so all I had to do was pick up the wounded, and 
carry them back to the aid station, and then go back to the next one.

Interviewer: What further training, if any, did you receive overseas?

Dugan: Well before I went overseas, maybe I should have mentioned that earlier, 
I went to a dental technician school.  Course, that was my number, trade, 
whatever the number was called, I forgot.  Assignment. I was assigned as a 
dental technician, which meant working in the laboratory, building…taking 
impressions and then building…

Interviewer: Dentures.

Dugan: Dentures.  Making Dentures.

Interviewer: But when you arrived in England, or in France, was there any extra 
training?

Dugan: No, just….no it wasn’t training it was just, usual, marching and…

Interviewer: Drill and…

Dugan: Drills.  Nothing Training.

Interviewer: It’s a term for it, that some historians use, I won’t go into it 
right now.  Aside from Kurns Utah, and Fort Benjamin Harris.  Were there other 
posts you were stationed at in the United States? 

Mrs. Dugan: Louisiana, Donny.

Dugan: Pardon?

Mrs. Dugan: Louisiana with [?]

Dugan: No that was Maneuvers, you wouldn’t count Maneuvers as being stationed.

Interviewer: I would, yeah.

Dugan: You would?

Interviewer: I would. If you were involved in the Army Maneuvers-

Dugan: Yeah well we, when the group, and the group of and the took the entire 
group of men that went to Camp Upton, and put them in the particular group and 
that were and they were medics from then on and in the medical department.  And 
that was what I was in.  I never had a, one day, training with a rifle, took us 
to the rifle range, shot the rifle, and a tommy gun, and that was it.  Never had 
to.

Interviewer: So you were part of the Louisiana maneuvers-

Dugan: Yes.

Interviewer: In 1942?

Dugan: Right.  That’s exactly where it was.  In Louisiana Swamp, Shreev, we went 
to Camp Shreev we called it.  Nope, no Camp Polk was the name of it.  In Shreveport.

Interviewer: What was your opinion of, the maneuvers, or the training, there?

Dugan: Well it was typical army, in the field, walking around the field, I didn’t, 
my duty was not anything specific, like as a medic. It was just there to keep me, 
all of us, occupied, and uh-

Interviewer: Did you respond to any emergencies?

Dugan: In the States?

Interviewer: In the Maneuvers?

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: I’m thinking of, accidental injuries, snake bites, anything like 
that?

Dugan: No. Nothing like that, no.

Mrs. Dugan: I don’t know if you’d be interested but he’s, I think, what made a 
big impression on him was the diversity of the people in the army.  Having come 
from the coloured scene and meeting people in Louisiana that he told me that 
they were totally illiterate.  I mean how they got in the army, I mean they just, 
probably couldn’t even write.  And so you were thrown with a, it was an 
experience, to be thrown in with people who used to take much less for a living 
and you came from, the old class home.  So, that was part of the experience.

Interviewer: That is interesting.  Would you like to add to that, or, is there 
anything you can add to that, or?

Dugan: That was, that was…an old Italian man, I forget his name, Tony something, 
and he used to talk about catching rats…capture muskrats and sell them, it was 
his…he sold rats.

Interviewer: That’s a common experience in many American Veterans talk about, 
because of the Second World War they, just as in the First World War in the 
earlier generation, people left their homes and saw more of the country, and the 
world then they had ever really knew existed, or could exist.  I wanna return to 
part of the, the survey from here, were you shown, if you recall this, the Frank 
Capra film, ‘Why We Fight’ the series?  You didn’t see that, they never showed 
you that in training?

Dugan: If we did, I don’t have any recollection of it at all.  We did have some 
training films, that they showed us.  They always tried to show us the ones that 
were so graphic, especially the venereal disease things, I [?] from training in [?]

Interviewer: As an aside I, my specialization is military medicine, it’s what I 
write on, so I could certainly sympathize with that.

Dugan:  And listen, and the way it would work was in the winter that I was doing 
all this.  All bundled up, they put us, brought us into a barrack kinda thing.  
Hundreds of guys would be packed and everyone was hot could be, and then they 
put on these gruesome films.  The consequences of having syphilis.  Oh geez.  
Guys were just dropping over.

Interviewer:  [laughter] Well that’s a different kind of film then the Frank 
Capra film.  The one I’m thinking of particularly is the film ‘Why We Fight’ 
which, tried to instill in the viewer, a motivation for why they fought.

Dugan: I appreciate them doing it, but I don’t [?] seeing it.	 

Interviewer: Well the follow up question, which may seem strange is, why did you 
fight, was there anything that motivated you? Was there any ideology.

Dugan: No, not for me, no. It was just country’s at war, we all had to go and serve.

Interviewer: You mentioned you had rifle training, sub-machine gun training-

Dugan: One day!

Interviewer: One day. But, course serving in Europe, you saw these weapons-

Dugan: Oh sure.

Interviewer: In use...What was your opinion of the weapons you saw.
	
Dugan: Everything was great.  I mean it overwhelmed the Germans.  Completely.  
The bombardment that we were [?] didn’t have a chance.

Interviewer: Okay.  What was your opinion of the equipment, and the clothing and 
the rations you were issued.

Dugan: Oh, Terrific. Excellent.

Interviewer: Never had a problem with your shoes?

Dugan: No, never had a problem.  They always had an extra pair for you, and we 
took care of them, to protect them or it wouldn’t look, had to leave them some 
place you know, it was very-

Interviewer: Were they adequate for the weather you encountered?		

Dugan: Well, everything was adequate except the socks.  They were just cotton 
socks, and there were, it was the middle of winter.  But that wasn’t very helpful. 

Interviewer: Did you hear accounts of Trenchfoot, in particular?

Dugan: Oh yeah.  The division suffered 50% casualties, it was terrific, the 
numbers of soldiers that were incapacitated with, with frostbite.  Frostbite, 
everybody had frostbite.  Very serious.

Mrs. Dugan: Don said, the biggest issue was, that you better take care of it 
seriously, or that was it.  So everybody guarded them like gold, because they 
issue the whatever they give you, and maybe three months from now they issue you 
another pair of shoes, but in the mean time you gotta take care of your shoes.  
They wore the overcoats and all that.

Dugan: I remember taking care of the overcoats, one of the strange things never, 
never understand why they did this, we were hardly, just about getting ready to 
go into combat.  On the line as the said, and they the whole group was with, I 
was in the Medics but it was the entire medical thing, and they drove us up to 
this one spot and said, ‘all right, get out and put your overcoat over here’ But 
we had a pile of overcoats, you couldn’t see over them, and the that was the end 
of our overcoats, we from then on we had the jacket, field jacket.

Interviewer: Field Jacket.

Dugan: That was it.

Interviewer: Do you remember when that was, particularly?

Dugan: Right in the coldest part of the war, in forty-four, yes.  I wanted to [?] 
in forty-four. Ridiculous. 

Mrs. Dugan: Who’d you say they blew themselves up?

Interviewer: Pardon?

Mrs. Dugan: [?] Didn’t you tell me, that when you went back, or when they went, 
the coach said they’d all been blown up?

Dugan: No, no.  Maybe, no.  I marvel at the fact that we eventually, months later, 
got our clothes back.  Everybody had their number in them, mine was D-5428 initial, 
and last four numbers of your serial number, commonly etched with indelible ink.  
And somehow we got them back.

Interviewer: Well that ties into the next question, a follow up, would you be, how 
responsive then, were the supply services to your units needs?

Dugan: Very good.  I used to marvel at how good they were.  And helpful, you know?  
Guys were very [?] but you know, they did, they did their job.

Interviewer: What did you think of the quality of leadership you encountered?

Dugan: The leadership?

Interviewer: Right. 

Dugan: The Quality?  Minimal. 
 
Interviewer: Really?

Dugan: They weren’t, they weren’t really trained.  Granted, I was in the Medics 
so the, you couldn’t expect them to be highly soldiers, most of them were doctors 
or dentists.

Interviewer: Do you know how officers were commissioned, that you served with?  
Were they through the ROTC, the OCS, the Guard?

Dugan: Most of them went to, went in as dentists and doctors and were commissioned 
in that regard, and however they were trained, but they were [tape pops]…specific 
training and I understood what they expect but since they were medics they weren’t 
they were no more trained with rifles, then I was, then the other soldiers.

Interviewer: What about regulars?  Did you encounter any regular army officers? [?] 
at all?

Dugan: No-

Interviewer: OCS? What about the infantry officers you encountered?

Dugan: Well they were infantry officers because they were they had just been 
drafted like everybody  else and had gone to ROTC or something like that, one the 
training or went to a, there was a major camp for training officers to become leaders 
and that in their particular theatre.  And a lot of them went to that  and spoke about 
it, it was pretty good, you know?  It was realistic, but since we were medics we 
weren’t, very little-[?]

Interviewer: Can you describe, or can you think of any instance of particularly good 
or particularly bad leadership?

Dugan: No.  I didn’t like the personality of the, a dentist, Dr. Eistober, [?] 
immaculate a room by [?] He was a terrible person.  But no no they were all good.  
Just average guys, who had gone to medical school or dental school and found 
themselves in the army.

Interviewer: Well let me ask you in, in your experience if I were to identify 
three groups, who the real leader were?

Dugan: Who the real leaders were?

Interviewer: Who the real leaders were.  Would it be the officers, the 
Non-Commissioned Officers or the enlisted men.

Dugan: Well I would think it was the officers.  But the Non-Commissioned, the 
Sergeants also played a major role. And the privates were just the privates, 
they took orders, you know.

Interviewer: Is this where the Sergeants would have to take more responsibility-

Dugan: Yes.

Interviewer: And more charge?

Dugan: Absolutely.  They had the responsibility.  Because common soldiers, 
private had no information.  They didn’t tell them anything, they were never told 
what you were doing or where you were going, anything, it was just always in the 
dark. 

Interviewer: How often did you see senior officers in your area?  Like, field 
grade or flag officers in your area?

Dugan: All the time.

Interviewer: All the time?

Dugan: Yeah.  I mean, I knew there was nothing special about them, [?] there.  
They were, leaders in the sense that they had the troops to take care of every day.

Interviewer: What was the highest rank that you ever saw? In your area?

Dugan: Well, the Regimental Commander was a full Colonel, Colonel Robertson, and 
Colonel Short was the Lieutenant Colonel, the assistant…regimental commander.

Interviewer: And you saw them often?
 
Dugan: No I didn’t see them often but it wasn’t a question of seeing them, they 
were just there.

Interviewer: They were there. Right.

Interviewer: Did you ever hear of any incidents, not even within your unit, but 
within other units of soldier violence directed against officers?

Dugan: Never. Never heard about it.

Interviewer: Never heard of that?

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: What was your thought on discipline?

Dugan: It wasn’t severe, maybe because I was with a group of educated men, they 
didn’t break the rules except, we were told what to do, and they basically did 
it.  Very little, objection of [?]

Interviewer: Did you ever see or hear of any particular punishment for breeches 
of discipline?

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: Okay.  Did you have, or did you know of any incidences of desertion 
in your unit?

Dugan: Desertion?  We didn’t have it.

Interviewer: Or absent without leave?

Dugan: No.  Well maybe that.  A Mexican guy, I can’t think of his name, and he 
would forget to come back on Sunday night, and it would be Tuesday before he came 
in, but that was, you know, that was it.

Interviewer: And I’m just making shorthand comments here, as I’m writing.  What 
forms of off duty recreation was common?

Dugan: Most common was pool.  Because we had the dayroom and the dayroom was 
basically outside the Barrack, and it was where everybody gathered and pool, we 
always had one or two pool tables, and that was what we had.

Mrs. Dugan: Didn’t you play cards?

Dugan: Oh sure, cards were also very popular.

Interviewer: What kind of Card Games?

Dugan: Poker. Everybody played Poker.

Interviewer: How’d you do?

Dugan: I was never a, my family never played cards, and I didn’t play cards much, 
but I liked to, it was a social affair.

Interviewer: Sure.

Dugan: -at night.

Mrs. Dugan: And they played for cigarettes.

Interviewer: You played for cigarettes?

Dugan: Yeah well, in the, we were in the service given cigarettes, didn’t have to 
buy them.

Interviewer: What packs were you given, what brands? What brand do you remember?

Dugan: No, no. Lucky Strike.

Interviewer: Luckies.

Dugan: [?] Lucky Strikes.  Just a few, just the major brands at the time.  
Chesterfields, Camels, Lucky Strike. Didn’t make any-

[END OF SIDE A]

[SIDE B BEGINS]

Interviewer: Side B Tape One, Dugan Interview.  We were just talking about 
cigarettes and what you would trade for them and what they were worth, would you, 
could you recapture that?  Or state that?

Dugan: Well they were always ten dollars a carton, it was sort of basic you know, 
and none of us were smokers so, just went out and sold them put them, pocketed 
the money.

Interviewer: What was your opinion of special services that you had?  Or that 
you were given experience of, I’m thinking USO shows, movies, reading material.

Dugan: Well there was a lot of reading material, but the shows, they were so 
seldom and so crowded that, I guess people went to them, I can’t remember to 
ever going to one even.

Interviewer: You never saw Rita Haver?

Dugan: [Laughs] I know they existed but, they had no [?] for it, you know?

Interviewer: What if any materials did you read? In your leisure time?

Dugan: Any free books, they always had something in the playroom, the bayroom 
whatever you call it.  Bayroom.

Interviewer: Did you recall reading any of the official papers ‘Stars and Stripes’ 
or ‘Yank’ or any of that?

Dugan: Oh Yank sure, yeah. I don’t know how they distributed Yank it just 
happened, you know?  We didn’t buy it.  We didn’t pay money for it, we just had 
them in the barracks, men read, or read it avidly, but…and it was all basicly 
army news, I mean any event that took place in the Army or in the Military…very 
widely placed and, very important.

Interviewer: Very important news, right. What about, did your families send you 
reading material?

Dugan: My, send me reading material?  No they didn’t, they wrote, my mother wrote 
every day.  And James, my older brother’s name was James, he was in the same thing 
as I was, he was, he was a platoon leader, in the 30th division, 119th Infantry, 
and at Aturna[?] his outfit was on my outfit's left front.  I mean incredible 
coincidence.

Interviewer: Did you see him at all during the war?

Dugan: Yes.  Yeah, a couple of times, not too often, but during the Battle of the 
Bulge, later in, when we went into Germany at the Rhine River, it was [?]

Interviewer: How did you and your comrades get along with Civilians in the United 
States.

Dugan: Never saw civilians.

Interviewer: In the United States?

Dugan: Oh well, at the Girls at the USO, that was fine, nothing serious.  I didn’t 
find it that way anyway.

Interviewer: No trouble in Louisiana-

Dugan: No, no, no, no, no, there was no, no strife between civilians and military, 
civilians were very glad to the military I thought.

Interviewer: Did you, interact or witness interaction with African-American civilians?

Dugan: No, they didn’t exist.  African-Americans, the only time we ever saw them was 
they were drive the, the vehicles, the trucks, two and a half ton trucks when we 
going right along.  That’s it.  They’re completely separate.

Interviewer: The next question is going to seem kind of redundant based upon what you 
did, but I’m going to ask, how adequate was the medical care?

Dugan: How?

Interviewer: How adequate was the medical care?

Dugan: Oh, I thought it was terrific, I thought yes.

Interviewer: You were a medic, so yeah.

Dugan: I mean I was only sick, just stomach aches they take, they took you in to a 
hospital for a few days so.  But they, they were very good with the treatments.  
And attention and care, and they had nurses, regular had army nurses, women.

Interviewer: How did they treat you?

Dugan: Well, everything was very good to us.

Interviewer: What was the general health of your unit? I mean overall, very healthy…

Dugan: I would say, yes, perfectly willing to do anything you asked.

Mrs. Dugan: Their health. Their health.

Dugan: Oh health?

Interviewer: Right, the health of your unit.

Dugan: Oh the health of my unit?

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: Well very good.  Yes.  No, you had sick call every morning, probably 
everyone for sick call they had a stomach ache or drank to much or something 
like that but uh.

Interviewer: I guess the Syphilis don’t help to.

Mrs. Dugan: Yeah, Right.

Dugan: The syphilis thing was when-

Mrs. Dugan: They went AWOL!

Dugan: It was terrible.

Interviewer: Well what did soldiers use your pay for, what did you guys use your 
pay for.

Dugan; Well I sent most of it home.  And, you always needed quarters or something 
at the PX.  And they gave us Cigarettes, I mean, you would pay for cigarettes, got 
cartons.

Interviewer: Was there much drinking in your unit?

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: Even overseas?

Dugan: Even overseas.

Interviewer: If, there was drinking how did they obtain it? When there was drinking how did you obtain it?

Dugan: I didn’t have any problems, I didn’t drink myself at the time, and there was never anybody drunk or anything like that. And the only time you could drink was at night, and play cards, the biggest recreation was playing cards, playing poker, guys would just sit down and ante up a couple of bucks and play poker.

INTEVIEWER: Okay. Do you remember any of the songs from you service. What were the popular songs?

Dugan: I don’t remember too many. Well they were popular so, well I don’t remember them now. 

Interviewer: Was there any military slang or phrases you remember?

Dugan: SNAFU.

Interviewer: We know what that means.

Dugan: Right.

Interviewer: Any others?

Mrs. Dugan: ‘Hurry to wait’ right? You sat next to a man at the office this 
morning and he said, I said ‘we’re waiting here so long’ and he said ‘Like the 
Army, Hurry to Wait’.

Dugan: Oh no, ‘Hurry up and wait’.

Mrs. Dugan: ‘Hurry up and wait’ that’s what he said.

Dugan: Well there was a lot of that you know because, they had pretty large 
group of men and they have to get them organized, everybody was, I would say, 
very attentive and trying to be helpful but they don’t want to be rushed, you 
know?  They just had, when we’d get to a, get organized.  You just got get 
organized.

Mrs. Dugan: [Laughs] We didn’t say when.

Interviewer: When you first learned you were going overseas.  What was your 
reaction?

Dugan: Totally expected.  We had trained for it.  There was no no deal, we 
knew we were going to Camp Reckenridge its where I sent from.

Interviewer: Where was Camp Reckenridge?

Dugan: Camp Reckenridge, and then they sent us to Camp Drum, for week or two 
week, to get on the boat and go overseas.

Interviewer: Okay.

Dugan: It was in Kentucky. Reckenridge was in Kentucky…I was in, I was at uh.

Mrs. Dugan: Reckenridge where was it?

Dugan: Camp Reckenridge, the camp was in Indiana.

Mrs. Dugan: Indiana.

Interviewer: Indiana, Okay.

Dugan: Area was northwest of Kentucky, east of [?] Anderson and Evinsville 
Indiana and Anderson Kentucky.

Interviewer: Okay, at what point during your movement overseas did you learn 
your real destination?  Did you know from the start or was it held from you?

Dugan: Oh, no, no…When we got there.

Interviewer: Only when you got there?

Dugan: Right. No [?]

Interviewer: Was there any difficulties in disembarking or moving-

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: No one was lost or equipment was lost?

Dugan: Not to my knowledge, all organized very well.  Maybe they had done it so 
many times they knew it, exactly what they were doing, but there was no, no mix 
up or…

Interviewer: When did you disembark? Or when did you embark for Europe? When?

Dugan: …I don’t remember exactly,  it was very cold.

Interviewer: What year?

Dugan: Forty-Four.

Interviewer: What do you-

Dugan: I don’t know, forty-three maybe.

Mrs. Dugan: I wasn’t.

Interviewer: Winter of Forty-Three, Forty-Four?

Dugan: Yes.  That could be.

Interviewer: What port did you leave from?

Dugan: New York.

Interviewer: Do you remember the transports name.

Dugan: Independence, I think it was.

Interviewer: S.S. Independence.  Where did you arrive-

Dugan: It was a big ship, I mean it was a real ocean liner.

Interviewer: Okay, well we’ll come to that in a moment, where did you arrive?

Dugan: Schwanzee.

Interviewer: England? 

Dugan: In Wales.

Interviewer: Can you describe the experience that ship took? In all?

Dugan: No…nothing particular…they weren’t overly strict or anything, its just 
that we would, go out and watch the ocean and play cards in, in our own room 
and that was about it.

Mrs. Dugan: How many people were aboard?

Interviewer: Oh, it was a big ocean liner.

Mrs. Dugan: And it was full?

Interviewer: Oh yes.

Interviewer: Did you have any U-Boat scares-

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: While you were going across?

Dugan: No, in a big convoy they only, we, very good, destroyers were zooming in 
and out and around and all over the place, and they were right there, they could 
see them, and they were right on top of you.  But no, we never had any alerts, we 
had drills, naturally.

INTERVIERWER: What happened during the drill?

Dugan: We just gathered in one particular spot, report and just follow directions 
and it was over before you know it.  And there was nothing to it.

Interviewer: Weather was, how was the weather during your trip?

Dugan: I don’t recall that the weather was terribly bad, it wasn’t.

Interviewer: No winter gales or storms?

Dugan: Winter was a little later. It must have murder in the winter, oh boy.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: When I went overseas it wasn’t, it wasn’t bad.

Mrs. Dugan: Then when you came for the, when you…when you came back was that 
when it was so awful that everybody was so seasick because there were-

Interviewer: Coming back.
 
Mrs. Dugan: -the weather was so terrible?

Interviewer: Coming back.

Mrs. Dugan: That was coming back?

Dugan: Oh boy.

Interviewer: Rough trip?

Dugan: On that boat, in late afternoon, and midnight they pulled out and, boy 
no sooner pulled out then the boat was upside down almost, everybody was 
vomiting all over the place.  Well they weren’t ready for that kind of water, 
nothings worse then being sea sick.

Interviewer: Oh, I know.

Dugan: Oh boy.

Interviewer: How many days did it take to go from New York to Swansea?

Dugan: Oh just about ten days.

Interviewer: Ten days?

Dugan: Yeah. Just, sort of two weeks, ten days.

Interviewer: Okay. Moving ahead, did the army tell you anything about the 
countries that you were going to be in?

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: No information.

Dugan: We were always interested in what, what was, what we were going to see 
and where we were going, but there was very little information.

Interviewer: Was this your first trip to another country? First trip abroad?

Dugan: Yes, yes, during the war.

Interviewer: What were your first impressions?

Dugan: I thought it looked just like New York.  I couldn’t get over it, I expected 
something different, but it was just like Long Island, and New York, Manhattan.

Interviewer: But in England.

Dugan: Yeah, big cities. That’s the area in which we were, so.

Interviewer: What did you think of the civilians you met overseas, in England.

Dugan: Well it, didn’t have much experience with them.  The army who had, was 
very specific about that.  No fraternization.  Period.  You could, talking to 
somebody, immediately got penalized, sixty-four dollars or something like that.

Interviewer: Wow.

Dugan: It was a regular situation where you had paid money.

Interviewer: Even with the local women or?

Dugan: Oh sure.

Interviewer: Yeah?

Dugan: Anybody.

Interviewer: What about during liberty?

Dugan: Granted when you were in bars and things like that, they didn’t do that, 
but uh, to congregate with civilians, not allowed.

Interviewer: What about during liberty, or during furlough?  Could you interact 
with civilians then? Or?

Dugan: I guess we did, I didn’t have to many furloughs, but we, we used to go 
into Paris, when we, when I was…the reason I was pulled back into France.  And 
Paris was only three hours away say.  And Rheims we were just outside of Rheims 
where we were stationed.

Interviewer: Did you, did you ever hear, or were you aware of looting?

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: No?

Dugan: Didn’t exist.

Interviewer: Didn’t exist?

Dugan: Not, in-

Interviewer: Not in your unit, right.

Dugan: Not in anyplace or anybody I ever heard of.

Interviewer: What was the morale like in your unit?

Dugan: Very good I thought. No guys, they were always bitching but uh…

Interviewer: What about home sickness was there a lot of that? Home Sickness?

Dugan: I guess everybody was homesick, but there was nothing you could do about 
that either, at all.

Interviewer: Did you anybody who received the, the, the noted ‘Dear John’ letters 
or anything like that?

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: No?

Dugan: Nope, never heard of that.

Mrs. Dugan: Nobody, I guess a couple soldiers if you were married already, so that 
was.

Interviewer: That wasn’t an issue?

Dugan: Well they were terribly homesick.

Mrs. Dugan: He didn’t mention it to me I don’t know if he’s going to get to it.

Interviewer: My, one of my buddies, Bill Reedy from Chicago, his wife was name 
was Louise and they had a son while he was over there.

Mrs. Dugan: Don said that when they would go into town, the people scared to 
death that they were occupying the town.  The people would be panic stricken and 
I don’t know if they took anything or they certainly made it clear that, they 
could take nothing with them.

Dugan: Right.

Mrs. Dugan: I don’t know if you’d call that looting, but, maybe some of the things 
were pocketed but-

Dugan: Right.

Interviewer: Right.

Mrs. Dugan: It wasn’t mass looting.
	
Interviewer: Mass looting, right.

Dugan: The American soldiers were very, they obeyed orders they weren’t rowdies or 
anything.  Caused trouble. 

Interviewer: Except for the Airborne guys.

Dugan: Well they had…feeling that they were superior, you know? They could do things.

Interviewer: I want to ask you when we come back to Morale, what effect did combat 
have on morale?

Dugan: Combat?

Interviewer: In the unit you were attached to?

Dugan: Well no, it didn’t effect the morale, it was our job to do that, and 
everybody was scared to death when they had to go out on the battlefield and pick 
guys up, cause those shells would come in and they’d just knock you down.  But 
there was no, everybody knew that, that was why they were there.  It wasn’t any 
morale thing.

Interviewer: Did the Sergeants help maintain the morale there too?

Dugan: They, didn’t differentiate who, you were a sergeant, I guess if you were an 
officer they differentiated but, enlisted men had to do what you doing.

Interviewer: Was there anything that helped improve morale? What would help morale 
if w-

Dugan: Well, they always had the Red Cross and…sounds a little stupid but the, donuts 
and the coffee.  They were always there, I mean you couldn’t avoid them.  And it was 
very freely given to you to so, you know they made, they did their best to make us 
comfortable.  I thought.

Interviewer: What about mail, did that help?

Dugan: Oh sure, mail. Everybody waited, going nuts to get some mail.

Interviewer: Where there any incidences where mail was held up, and you would wonder 
where?

Dugan: No I don’t remember any of that.

Interviewer: Yeah?

Dugan: No.  The mail was pretty good.  Got it very quickly, and no problems.

Interviewer: Okay.  Was there anything that would lead to a decline in morale, was 
there anything that would hurt morale in your unit?

Dugan: I’m sure there were but I, nothing stands out in my mind.

Interviewer: Seeing a friend or knowing a friend who was lost?

Dugan: You know the combat team leader and that, that effected them but uh…no….they 
stayed cool you know, it wasn’t they weren’t over do, very little punishment or any 
discipline, didn’t need discipline.

Interviewer: Okay. What was your opinion of the army troop information program?

Dugan: Very little.

Interviewer: Very little?

Dugan: Almost non-existent.  You used to always wonder where the hell we were going.  
Never knew.  And you could, rightfully so, you couldn’t have everybody [?]

Interviewer: What about enemy propaganda, did you see any of it, hear it?

Dugan: Very little.

Interviewer: Like you would go into a town or-

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: -Anything-

Dugan: -Didn’t exist.

Interviewer: No leaflets or?

Dugan: No, no.  Maybe the war was to civilized at the time, but there wasn’t any 
of that.

Interviewer: I can think, what prompts me to think of that I took some photos for 
the website of some propaganda that was sent was used in Italy.  Dropped on 
Americans in Anzio, and I remember hearing about comments about that.

Dugan: I’m sure it existed but not in France, didn’t, wasn’t there.

Interviewer: Okay.

Dugan: That’s my experience.

Interviewer: How and to what extent were did religion matter or religious 
convictions expressed in your unit.

Dugan: Very little. Almost non-existent.

Mrs. Dugan: But you did have Chaplain.

Dugan: Oh yeah.

Mrs. Dugan: And you were very friendly with him.  And they had another young man 
from Jersey, he was Jewish but they were all seemed to be there, very-

Dugan: They had, they had-

Mrs. Dugan: And I don’t think it was necessarily religious-

Dugan: They had Catholics-

Mrs. Dugan: I just think 

Dugan: We every, each of the religions, and they just, divided them up among the 
different regiments.  I was fortunate because when I had, it was Father Halburg 
who’s out in Connecticut.  And he was assigned all, to my regiment, and I don’t 
know maybe it was a larger group then that but, just a regular guy, good looking, 
rugged individual, but still a Catholic Priest, and you know, he’d play cards with 
us but that was, you know, he tried to, he got tipsy one night.

Mrs. Dugan: They threw him out-

Dugan: And he really, really, knew he was wrong.  Next week or so he had hardly knew 
he was in the army.

Interviewer: Did, did you interact much with Jewish soldiers, did you interact much 
with soldiers of other faiths and see how they-

Dugan: No I, everybody was either Catholic or Protestant and there was no-

Mrs. Dugan: Don how about Mort?

Dugan: Well I didn’t say absolutely one-hundred percent.

Mrs. Dugan: But he was very friendly with him.

Dugan: Al, Al, Alfred Aaronson who lived in New Jersey.  And he was in my STP 
also.  So we knew him very well.  And he was, our outfit so he was there every day, 
nothing different then anybody else, and I got along very well with Al, he was very 
friendly.

Interviewer: Just in the interest of time I know, we’ve, I only got the one tape with 
me, and I don’t want to take up all of your time today.  You went over with a unit.

Dugan: Yes.

Interviewer: You stayed with that unit.

Dugan: The entire division.  The entire division went over as a unit.

Interviewer: And you were not then in the position of being a replacement.

Dugan: No, no.

Interviewer: How did you feel about replacements who would join you?

DuganN: Well there weren’t to many of them because we were a brand new outfit and 
we and everybody was there, in the division or in the regiment, replacements came 
much later when wounded and so…

Interviewer: There was no ill feeling, ignorance or anything towards replacements?

Dugan: I didn’t sense any of it.

Interviewer: Okay.

Dugan: The army had it made as far as I was concerned, nobody was causing trouble 
or.

Interviewer: Well you hear stories about veterans of a unit when they have 
replacements join them they isolate them, they don’t want to get too close to them, 
for a while. You didn’t have any sense of that?

Dugan: I didn’t, no I didn’t have any sense of that.

Interviewer: Okay. Did you know or observe any newspaper or radio correspondents?

Dugan: We had, yes, we had a newspaper, everybody wanted to read it, you know?

Interviewer: But did you know of any of the writers for them-

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: Or the reporters?  What did you think of the coverage of the war?  
Or how the war was covered in the news?

Dugan: It was good as can be expected I mean it was complete, still a lot that 
was secret but the…you couldn’t hide it because we were a part of it so…

Interviewer: And you mentioned that you read ‘Yank’

Dugan: Oh sure.

Interviewer: What did you think of it?

Dugan: Oh that was terrific. Yank was very good.

Interviewer: Did you read Stars-

Dugan: Very current. Cartoons and Sad-Sack was the Cartoon.

Interviewer: Yeah. Was that in your view, was that representative of the Army or?

Dugan: Yeah. Yeah, it was on target.

[END OF TAPE 01]

End of Tape 01 of 03

--------------------------------------------------------------------

WWII Veteran Transcript
Subject: Donald Dugan
Interviewer: Bobby Alan Wintermute
Tape Number: 02 of 03
Interview Date:
Transcriber:


Transcription Date:



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interviewer: September 26th, Interview Donald Dugan, part 2, Bob Wintermute as 
Interviewer.  How are we doing today Don?

Dugan: Fine.  Thank you.

Interviewer: Good, good. Glad to be back, thank you for bringing me back.

Dugan: Thank you.

Interviewer: We were last talking about your military experience, before you 
arrived in Europe. And your brief service in England and in France in the zone of 
the interior, I want us to turn our attention now towards your combat related 
experience.

Dugan: Okay.

Interviewer: This is again, if you can confirm for me you were in the first 

Dugan: Correct.

Interviewer: When did you arrive you and your unit, arrive on the line?

Dugan: Oh Jesus…uh, that’s a good question.  The Germans attacked in…December I 
believe, December 16th I don’t know if I recall correct and we were in France and 
it took about…well, as soon as they got word that they wanted the division I was 
with, the 75th infantry division, to go up into Holland, and that area, it 
took…couple of weeks, it took a while.

Interviewer: So it’s December, January-

Dugan: Yeah, right.

Interviewer: December forty-four, January Forty-Five.

Dugan: Trying remember if you got it wrong.

Interviewer: Well lets, lets follow the questionnaire, more closely.  Did you 
take part in any combat action?

Dugan: Part in combat?  Oh yeah, sure, did I show you the medal I got?

Interviewer: Yes you did.

Dugan: I had a citation I have it someplace.

Interviewer: So from forty-five, January forty-five, till the end of the war?  
In Europe?

Dugan: My?

Interviewer: From January Nineteen Forty-Five-

Dugan: That was late?

Interviewer: When did you first enter action?

Dugan: Well, I guess it was…see, sequence of event, I had come back, I had, I was, 
I was located in, at Mitchell Field, Long Island, in the Air Force, I was in the 
medics in the Air Force at that point, there was Air Force and U.S. Army. 

Interviewer: Right.

Dugan: And then, I signed up for the ASTP, I took the test, and was granted test, 
test.  I went to City College, to be organized, and then they, of all places, I 
was looking forward to to going west or someplace, some different university, 
they sent me to Brooklyn College.

Interviewer: It’s a different Universe.

Dugan: [Laughs] I used to come home on weekends it was so close. And that, 
then...after the Battle of the Bulge they didn’t need any of that stuff anymore, 
they broke down the ASTP and a lot of other kind of units. Even the Air Force 
cadets, cadets were coming in in their nice uniforms and just like the regular 
G.I.s like myself and…and then we in the infantry and then we were assigned I was 
just, I guess, at what point I was in the 75th Infantry division, I think it was 
earlier then that, but we were on like, maneuvers down in Louisiana.

Interviewer: Right.

Dugan: And that area. And then from Louisiana we came up into Evansville, 
Indiana, that area.

Interviewer: Right.

Dugan: And we were there for good two months, about six months or so I guess.  I 
wasn’t keeping track but, and then it was, you know maybe it was at that point I 
went into ASTP.

Interviewer: No I think, I think you shortly thereafter, you were, from our 
interview last, you went to from there to disembarkation with your division, to 
England.

Dugan: England right. Wales.

Interviewer: Right.

Dugan: Swanzee.

Interviewer: Swanzee.

Dugan: Swanzee, Wales.

Interviewer: And then from Wales you were in England and from there into France.

Dugan: Right.

Interviewer: But the next part of this then is when did you actually begin you 
combat service.

Dugan: Alright…I may have been in an area to be in combat service but nothing was 
happening until the Germans attacked in December.

Interviewer: So December, 1944.

Dugan: Yes, that’s when everything got anxious and, started moving troops around 
and combining the organization and the armies then were forming and the 75th was 
part of another group and, you know, it just kept growing.

Interviewer: If I recall correctly they were creating a new army.

Dugan: Yes.

Interviewer: The Ninth Army.

Dugan: Ninth Army, right, the Ninth Army.

Interviewer: It was the first, First, Fifth, Ninth, maybe, oh and the Third, but 
the Third was Patton’s army-

Dugan: Right, that was Tanks.

Interviewer: What town were you in, where were you located when you first learned 
about the German Offensive.

Dugan: You don’t have a map or anything do you?

Interviewer: Not off-hand, but do you recall the what was it in Holland or in 
France?

DON DUGAN: Yes in that area, probably was in France, because I remember they, 
getting all the troops and we went up into Holland, in that area.  The English 
were up there, that was my first exposure to the English.

Interviewer: English soldiers?

Dugan: English Soldiers yes, they…and we were very much intermixed at that point.

Interviewer: What were your thoughts about the prospect of combat.  What were you 
thinking, about the prospect of actually being in a shooting.

Dugan: I hate that I thought it was a non-event, but we didn’t think about it all.

Interviewer: Didn’t worry about it?

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: You weren’t worried about-

Dugan: Worried about it?

Interviewer: -fatality or mortality?

Dugan: No, not until it happened, and then we were worried about it.

Interviewer: Right.

Dugan: Because it became real. And especially as a litter-bearer, just going out 
and picking up the guys, and in, from wherever they were shot down, so, they 
weren’t mostly shot down they were shrapnel, always most of them, but uh…

Interviewer: What was your first experience in combat?

Dugan: In combat?

Interviewer: Your baptism of fire. Can you describe that?

Dugan: Well, I don’t think I was frightened at the beginning, I wasn’t. It wasn’t 
after, it wasn’t until you began to see it.  What will happen [?]…I don’t have, 
keep asking me questions.

Interviewer: Okay, well when you first saw action, what was your feeling, when 
you saw it, what was, you were a litter-bearer.

Dugan: Yeah.

Interviewer: Were you called up to bring wounded soldiers back?

Dugan: Oh yes, right in, right to where they were knocked down.

Interviewer: What was that first time like?

Dugan: It was nerve-wracking because the shells were still falling I mean they 
didn’t stop the war to let us run up and get the wounded.

Interviewer: So it was an artillery barrage?

Dugan: So it was all the way, you know was all, a lot of combat and that, I 
don’t know, overdo it but it was a lot.

Interviewer: And as you said, you didn’t think about it until afterwards. 

Dugan: No, No we didn’t concern ourselves too much with it, we had very good 
leaders and the enlisted men and the officers, were very good, and I was in the 
Medics so, it was a little separate, we  didn’t carry a weapons, I didn’t have 
a weapon, or used.

Interviewer: What was the, the typical day like after you were deployed to the 
front lines.

Dugan: Well it was mostly a collapsing thing, just to collapse it. That’s all they 
were, it was pretty nerve wracking, but there’s nothing to do, we weren’t called 
upon to do anything, excuse me, we just, just relaxed, we were in some sort of a 
town or, most of them we just took over a house and whether the people were, some 
people were still there or not, didn’t make any difference, we didn’t, we were 
very orderly and and nobody, no kind of disrupture or civil disobedience of 
anything like that, everybody was very good.

Interviewer: Okay.

Dugan: It’s my opinion, maybe all the people I were with were exceptions, but I 
don’t think so.

Interviewer: How often would you be called out to, rescue-

Dugan: Oh that was constant. I mean that was every time, once, once you went in, 
once the group you were with, wasn’t a company but it could have been, it’s a 
large group, but it was, it was just constant, they just kept pushing, and 
pushing and pushing. 

Interviewer: How did you feel about that?

Dugan: Well I, at times I was pretty nervous. As everybody was. Cause those 
shells falling, right at your feet almost, and they had, they had about, that, 
with those mortars coming in, they had such force, I mean you didn’t even hear 
anything PEW!  BOOM!  Boy oh boy, you could just almost feel the ground shaking.  
It wasn’t, but it felt that way.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: It was a terrible impact, all the time.
 
Interviewer: Yeah.  What about the response of American units to that fire.  Did 
you see that?  How American units would respond with their own fire support?

Dugan: Respond to what?

Interviewer: Say your unit was being shelled.  Or being attacked by-

Dugan: Okay.

Interviewer: A German unit. 

Dugan: Yeah.

Interviewer: What was, what were your thoughts on the America response to that?

Dugan: I never thought of it. It just a natural thing, we’re fighting them and 
they’re fighting us and we’re gonna beat them and we did.

Interviewer: Were you ever directly under German fire?

Dugan: Oh sure. Constantly.

Interviewer: Personally?

Dugan: Personally. Certainly.  Trying to dig a hole underneath you sure.  Cause 
that, not too many men in the infantry at the front line avoided that.

Interviewer: What about enemy air attacks?

Dugan: Never. Well, I shouldn’t say never. But it was so remote.

Interviewer: Describe an instance.

Dugan: Only, It was only on occasions like on the Rhine River or something.  The 
German didn’t attack units on the ground, or not my unit anyway.

Interviewer: Can you describe like you said, rarely it happened, can you describe 
one of those instances?

Dugan: Well in general terms it was, I can remember on the Rhine River area 
crossing there that we were attacked, or strifed, strafed not strifed.  Strafed.  
But it wasn’t nervewrecking but it passed quickly, I mean, some reason, overwhelm 
us, it didn’t overwhelm me.

Interviewer: What about the other men around you?

Dugan: I didn’t they were, the American soldiers at that time were, sort of, I 
don’t want to say carefree, but they weren’t scared to death all the time, and-

Interviewer: Or they wouldn’t show it.

Dugan: Not in my opinion in any case.  Oh sure the shelling was you know, you 
had to take cover and be careful, but you couldn’t avoid it. That’s the way it 
was.

Interviewer: Sounds like your leadership and discipline was very good under fire.

Dugan: It was.  It was, in the Medics, I mean that’s I can still remember they 
were very good, but the soldiers were very good, I mean, it wasn’t that…there 
was no nonsense.

Interviewer: Do you remember any individual examples of like, very strong 
leadership under fire? Or any examples of extreme bravery under fire?

Dugan: Nothing occurs to me right off.  But I’m [?].  They were good but-

Interviewer: I mean even by other Medics and litter bearers, you know?  Cause it’s 
often said that the hospital corpsman or the medical corpsman has to exhibit a 
different type of bravery-

Dugan: Yeah they were right in the middle of it.

Interviewer: -then a combat soldier.

Dugan: Right. And you had to expose yourself to go out and get the wounded. 

Interviewer: Nothing that comes to mind?

Dugan: Nothing. It’s just the general situation.

Interviewer: You were never wounded?

Dugan: No, I was never wounded.  And I had a brother who was also in the infantry 
and a platoon leader, never wounded either. James and I were both-

Interviewer: Very Lucky.

Dugan: Both were awarded medals and…

Interviewer: Did you personally know of others close to you, who were killed or 
wounded? 

Dugan: I can’t remember them now. No I can’t. Wounded was one thing, killed was 
something else.

Interviewer: What’s the, what do you mean?

Dugan: Well it was just, if you were wounded, no matter what it was, you, you 
were no longer in the scene, you were taken to a field hospital someplace.  And 
our job was to get somebody, the wounded, back to an aid station, that was the 
first point of contact, an aid station, and whatever it was…

Interviewer: Can you describe what would happened at the Aid Station?

Dugan: We had a it was always a doctor there, the command was a medical person who 
was in command, he was the captain or the colonel, captain, not colonel, colonel 
would be at the regiment, and uh…doing there job.  No nonsense.  Very friendly and, 
you know, no nonsense and no bad acting or anything, no rebellion or anything.

Interviewer: Say you brought wounded soldiers back to the aid, how were they 
processed?  How were they treated?

Dugan: Well the, litter bearers like myself or aid men would just drop them off, 
they had nothing to do with medical treatment.  The Surgeons, or the 
surgical…whatever their title was I can’t…surgical helpers, not helpers but 
surgical aides of some sort.  They took care of the medical aspects of it.

Interviewer: What about when you picked soldiers up from the hospital corpsman on 
the scene, like the platoon medic.  What was that exchange like, did they tell you 
anything special?

Dugan: They weren’t too many of those, they weren’t-

Interviewer: I mean like were you ever given special instructions about different 
type of wounds or?

Dugan: No nothing.  Nothing at all.

Interviewer: Okay.

Dugan: Basically, no, no prior training.

Interviewer: Just get ‘em and go. Okay.

Dugan: The job didn’t require it, the job required getting the wounded the 
point of being wound to a place where they could get some aid, and the aid and the 
aid would be by medical people not the [?]

Interviewer: Did you ever see or know of people, who were the victims of friendly 
fire?

Dugan: Friendly fire? 

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: No?

Dugan: I mean where our own people would shoot them-

Interviewer: By accident.

Dugan: No.  I’m sure it happened by accident, but uh…no I didn’t.

Interviewer: Okay, even artillery barrage, or aircraft?

Dugan: What?

Interviewer: Even by artillery barrage or aircraft?

Dugan: No. Very little aircraft, plenty of artillery fire but, no I didn’t, I 
don’t recall it.

Interviewer: What about psychiatric cases. The idea of shell shock, or combat 
fatigue, did you ever see people-

Dugan: No

Interviewer: -Afflicted with that?

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: No?

Dugan: Not saying it didn’t exist, but it didn’t exist where I was.

Interviewer: Okay, not even amongst other litter bearers or?
 
Dugan: No. 

Interviewer: Okay.

Dugan: Maybe it took a lot more doing or being there but-

Interviewer: Not from what you saw?  Okay.  You say of course you’re with the 75th 
division, which allied command was it attached to, you said 9th army?

Dugan: Yes.  Well at different times it was different armies.  It was the 5th and 
the 9th and it, I guess it was always, well, I don’t know, what required, whether 
it was the area in which we were in, because we moved round, all the way from 
Holland down to France.  I guess it depends on command you were, the division was 
under.  But it didn’t matter to us, it was  just…

Interviewer: Was there any special procedures for operating or working with allied 
troops, you mentioned the British, I think possibly also Canadians or?

Dugan: Well if it did exist it didn’t exist at the private, at the level that I was, 
just an ordinary private soldier.

Interviewer: Right.  You mentioned that you had, experienced, you met British 
Soldiers, what was your opinion of the British?

Dugan: Oh, I thought they were terrific.

Interviewer: Yeah?

Dugan: Yeah.  Oh yeah, they were very good.  Very friendly and very knowledgeable 
you know, very good.  I, we met them several times and areas in, along the Rhine 
and up in Holland Area, especially in the Holland Area, the just the, it wasn’t 
Holland just alone, that whole…if I had a map I’d…

Interviewer: That area from Aarnhem down to Einhoven? Yeah.

Dugan: North of that too.

Interviewer: Right.  Right.  Was there any specific experience that stands out in 
your mind of, involving the British soldiers, that you’d like to share?

Dugan: No. 

Interviewer: No?

Dugan: No, we didn’t see that much of the British soldiers, no, not in combat.

Interviewer: What about even just observing them or meeting them?

Dugan: Right.

Interviewer: Any special encounter that stands out? 

Dugan: Nothing that stands out in my mind no.

Interviewer: Did you have any thoughts about how they were equipped, what was 
different with them as compared to Americans, with their equipment that stood out.

Dugan: Well I think we’ve always felt we were superior and had the better 
equipment, then anybody else [laughter].  And we did, there was no question about 
that, the British couldn’t match us.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: It was relative, all relative compared to the Americans.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: But they were very good and no quarrel, no problem.

Interviewer: We hear stories about the British being jealous of the Americans 
because of the pay, Americans were paid so much more.

Dugan: Well that, that was scuttlebug from the backside.  That wasn’t that wasn’t 
among combat soldiers.  [?] Who could care in combat whether somebody got paid 
for more then you.

Interviewer: Yeah but when you’re on, when your in liberty, and you’re trying to 
meet the girls, I heard that was an issue.

Dugan: Yeah.  But you must remember, you’ve asked that earlier, there was no 
fraternization and that was very strictly enforced, they wouldn’t dare speak to 
somebody.  And you could meet the girls at the USOs when you were there, but it 
was strictly that, limited social engagement.

Interviewer: Did you meet any other Allied soldiers?  I’m thinking Dutch, Polish, 
French?

Dugan: Not in the sense of meeting them and relating to them no.

Interviewer: Okay.

Dugan: They were in the area but they were, not only language is a problem but 
the commands were a problem.

Interviewer: Canadians?  Any Canadians?

Dugan: No.  Nothing.

Interviewer: No?

Dugan: Not to my knowledge, as I recall.

Interviewer: Did you remember from when you were talking with British soldiers 
what they thought of Americans?

Dugan: No.  That didn’t-

Interviewer: Didn’t really come up.  You know, whether they thought they were good 
soldiers, or?

Dugan: No. I’m sure among themselves they used say, probably, G.I.’s don’t know…[?] 
but, no there was nothing about that.

Interviewer: You mentioned you were in Holland. Did you encounter of the Hollish, 
or the Dutch resistance?

Dugan: Oh no, no, none at all.  There was no resistance in that, that we would be 
obvious or observable, and didn’t exist.

Interviewer: Okay. What was the, your attitude of the Dutch civilians you met?

Dugan: Well I thought they were very good, all the allies were very good , they 
were very serious and-

Interviewer: But even the people though, just the average people?

Dugan: Yeah, for trying to help.  Everybody was always trying to help.  I…very good, 
I had no problem with the people, people were-

Interviewer: What was your thoughts on how the Dutch felt about Americans?

Dugan: The subject didn’t come up they were too profound for guys in the line.

Interviewer: But they weren’t happy to see you?  They didn’t welcome Americans and 
such?

Dugan: Well I’m sure they were happy to see us because it took the burden off them 
for a while but, no there was…there was very little intercourse in that sense.  
Because the army didn’t want it that way, they wanted the soldiers, U.S. Soldiers 
to be kept by themselves, and do their own thing  and no fraternization, that was 
very strictly enforced.

Interviewer: Lets talk about the Germans.

Dugan: The Germans?

Interviewer: What was thought about the Germans?

Dugan: Well I had no problem because they were always, I didn’t see any of the 
terrible things that they obviously did do.  Even in the Ruhr, people that were 
behind the fences, you know they starving them and oh god they piece of bread, 
could go crazy.

Interviewer: What was your opinion of the German Armed Forces? 

Dugan: Well I thought they were very good, they were good, there’s no question 
about that, even, you know they always, thought of the German soldiers as being 
the best soldiers in the world, they probably were.  That was their mentality too, 
they were to obey orders, and all that business, don’t get me any smoke, they just, 
would do you what they were told to do.  Not that the American soldiers were 
difficult, they didn’t have quarrels.

Interviewer: Were you involved in prisoners at any time?

Dugan: No.  I saw plenty of the prisoners but not, we didn’t.

Interviewer: What did you think of them, when you saw them?  What they look like?

Dugan: Very docile but very well organized, and they weren’t poor souls by any 
means.

Interviewer: They were all-

Dugan: They were always like this when I saw because they were-

Interviewer: Note that he’s indicating hands behind their head.

Dugan: Yeah.

Interviewer: What was the age of the Germans you saw?

Dugan: I thought they were relatively young, I would say nothing over fortyish.

Interviewer: How young though? I mean like-

Dugan: Well they weren’t, they weren’t children either.  No, they were good troops.  
Whether they were, had been saved or whatever but they were strong, good men.  You 
just see that they were.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: The way that they were organized.

Interviewer: We hear accounts as a historian, we hear accounts, as the war goes on 
the Germans had to younger, younger men and boys to fill the ranks, and their 
equipment became, or their uniforms became less, well made, and cheaper.  Did you 
experience that or?

Dugan: It may have existed, but I didn’t experience it, I didn’t experience it 
simply because we were kept so separate.

Interviewer: Right.

Dugan: You didn’t, you saw some of the combat zones but nothing…

Interviewer: Did you ever encounter any of the elite troops, German Elite Troops, 
Waffen-SS or?

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: What was your opinion of the SS?

Dugan: Oh, I always thought they were super soldiers, always, god forbid if we face 
them, but never happened.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: But we had such firepower, god I don’t know, they must have been scared to 
death.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: God, mortars and shells and 155s, Oh boy, oh boy.  You couldn’t believe it, 
anybody could survive after that, just in a regular bombardment.  They didn’t…

Interviewer: Was that the typical way you saw the 75th division attack, was to use 
a lot of bombardment first?

Dugan: Oh yeah, oh yes. Very much so.

Interviewer: Bullets before men?

Dugan: Yes. Very much so.

Interviewer: Was that effective?

Dugan: I guess it was, mortars, the Germans were good with mortars, no question about 
that, but we were pretty good too, our soldiers were very good mortar people.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: Drop it right on your foot, [?]

Interviewer: Wow.

Dugan: Yeah.

Interviewer: Wow.

Dugan: It’s where all our casualties came from, mortar fire.

Interviewer: What about other weapons, I mean you hear about the German 88?

Dugan: Oh the 88? Well that was no question, just hear about, you could experience 
it.

Interviewer: What was that like?

Dugan: It hit the ground before you even knew it was coming.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: Oh yeah.  They were, they were, they were scary.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: Yes the were, really.  Course they, you could just like that, you couldn’t 
even hear them, before you knew it it was exploding.

Interviewer: Wow.

Dugan: And they exploded.  They did.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: And they had a lot of them, too. They weren’t some scarce thing that once in 
a while would happen you’d say ‘oh there’s an 88’ no they were there all the time.  
In my experience, and mortars too, just very good at that stuff.

Interviewer: Yeah, Germans are known for other weapons as well, like their armored 
weapons, their tanks.  What was the feeling amongst you and yours about prospect of 
facing German Armor?

Dugan: Well, I personally didn’t experience that.

Interviewer: What was the scuttlebutt about it?

Dugan: We the ground troops had some tanks, but the division had a tank corps of 
sorts, but it wasn’t, wasn’t like a support group, it was just there, wasn’t 
something to be concerned with, but it’s my experience cause-

Interviewer: I hear stories about like the German Tigers and the Panther Tanks.

Dugan: Saw them occasionally, but never experience them no.  They were too remote, 
I guess it was the difference between ground troops fighting and then artillery 
and tanks and things, you needed a lot of space for artillery and tanks where as 
the…our group just went up bit by bit, their objective was to capture a little town 
or something like that, a house…

Interviewer: What about the German infantry weapons?  The quality of those compared 
to American weapons?

Dugan: Well, hard for me to say because

Interviewer: Well you would hear them.

Dugan: Never got close to them to see it, but they were, we always understood they 
were super.  They were very good. And the Germans were good at using them.

Interviewer: Yeah. How well trained do you think they were?

Dugan: Superbly. 

Interviewer: Yeah? 

Dugan: Yeah, they were very well trained. No question about that.

Interviewer: But you didn’t have any ill-feelings towards them as a people or?

Dugan: Pardon?

Interviewer: You had ill-feelings toward them as a people?

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: No?

Dugan: No, not…no didn’t exist.

Interviewer: Even after learning about there the prison camps and concentration 
camps?

Dugan: Maybe it was, for some reason it was too remote.  It wasn’t something we 
concerned ourselves with, oh it was brought to our attention, but we were asked to 
think about it.  It was just, something that happened in the war.

Interviewer: Did you ever carry enemy wounded?

Dugan: Carry the wounded?

Interviewer: Yeah, their wounded.

Dugan: Their wounded?  Yeah we would that, on occasion.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: Yeah, we were always able to give them some help, a hand or a bandage or 
whatever.

Interviewer: How did they respond to that?

Dugan: They, very gracious, very pleased and, you know, just thank you, couldn’t 
speak American, English, but you they were-

Interviewer: None of them spoke English?

Dugan: No, none of this enemy stuff, I never experience enemies.

Interviewer: Yeah. None of them spoke English?

Dugan: Very little, very few.  It wasn’t until end of the fighting that the 
Germans who spoke English seemed to come out and you could talk to them.  And 
prior to that…maybe they were under the same restrictions we were, no 
fraternization.

Interviewer: Did you ever encounter German Officers?

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: No? It was always the enlisted men?

Dugan: Sometimes in, very occasionally, but on occasion you’d, since we were 
always going into the factories and especially being medics, you know, we wouldn’t 
count to them, but they were very, almost non-existent.  They weren’t trying to 
start anything or confront us, or battle us or fight us or, we weren’t the enemy 
we were just somebody else who was there.  Maybe I have such a distorted view of 
this but…

Interviewer: Well this was after the fighting had passed by obviously-

Dugan: But, not like a whole battle or a campaign had passed by it was just…

Interviewer: What about political Germans?  Members of the Nazi Party did you 
encounter any of that?

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: Even in the Ruhr.

Dugan: No, very little of that.

Interviewer: Lets talk about the Ruhr.  Lets talk about your, your taking part in 
the reduction of the Ruhr pocket.  The fighting of all that is in Germany of course.

Dugan: Yeah.

Interviewer: What was the river crossing like? Crossing the Rhine?

Dugan: Well when I crossed the Rhine it was no problem because we just, the last 
troops over we just followed right across with them…It was always safe at that 
point, because the bombardment was…

Interviewer: Where did you cross that, do you remember?

Dugan: Yes. Up the town called Wessel. I think

Interviewer: Wessel. 

Dugan: Wessel, or something, on the northern, northern Rhine, northern part.  And 
it was very calm, you know, it wasn’t a big battle scene there, because they had 
been beaten they were wiped out and I guess.

Interviewer: How far would your division travel in a day, in closing the Ruhr?

Dugan: Well it would vary naturally because…I would say on average, in a, in a 
combat situation, not very little, very little travelling, no more then you could 
walk, but whether, whether it was to another area then, everybody had to jump on a 
train, or a truck, or a Jeep or something and be transported.  Two and a half ton 
trucks were the thing that we all got on to.  Except for the [?] or the command 
troops, the jeeps and [?] put it on the back all of the place.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: Anything to get a ride.

Interviewer: You’re driving on some pretty big highways at that point.

Dugan: Oh yes, oh yeah.

Interviewer: The Autobahn?

Dugan: Super. Oh yes, we were, that area in Aust, in that, well almost the German 
Ruhr kind of a thing very industrialized.  Very, you know, almost like the States.  
No difference from the States, as the roads are like.

Interviewer: Did a lot of people think that, that the Germans were like us in some 
way?

Dugan: I think so.  Cause there were no obvious differences, how could you not 
think that?

Interviewer: But the swastika banners, the Nazis-

Dugan: Oh well…well even so.  Maybe they were weakened by that time or they, 
disappeared, I didn’t, there wasn’t a lot of it, well we were the front line 
troops so there couldn’t have been a lot of…surrendering but…

Interviewer: Did the civilians resent you, do you think?

Dugan: Not that the civilians kept out of it. You never saw them.

Interviewer: Never saw them?

Dugan: Well on two basis.  One we weren’t permitted to talk to them, or make any 
association with them, no fraternization, nothing.  And on the second hand they 
didn’t want any part of us, [?] or we would, what would we do, if we draw fire.

Interviewer: What about the kids?

Dugan: Kids? Never saw kids.

Interviewer: That’s like the legend of American soldiers, always with the candy 
bar and the children.

Dugan: Oh yeah, well, that was not in the combat situation. So-

Interviewer: Didn’t see that?

Dugan: No, no, that was on traveling to another front or something.

Interviewer: Or after the fighting was done?

Dugan: And the convoys used to go along, and they wouldn’t speed, you know, they’d 
just go slowly and, almost talk to the people as the went, give them, they were 
always looking for something to eat, or some, some handout of sorts.

Interviewer: What did the towns look like when you went through them?

Dugan: Pretty good.  I mean, not, not disheveled, beaten down people.  That was my 
impression, they looked pretty like they looked like Americans almost.

Interviewer: Did you see any of the big cities or the factory cities with the Ruhr?

Dugan: Oh sure.  The factory, we fought through the factory cities.

Interviewer: What shaped were those in?

Dugan: They were still running.  You’d put your hand on a line and be run over or 
something.

Interviewer: Really?

Dugan: Yes.  Oh sure.  When the troops pulled in, this thing was clanging away at 
a mile a minute.  It didn’t stop.  And we just, the war passed them, factories by, 
they kept running.

Interviewer: You hear stories about how the 8th Air Force had bombed so much of 
the Ruhr Valley during the war, and they were supposed to be targeting the 
factories but you’re telling me that the factories were still working.

Dugan: Well they did bomb them, did target them, but they were still working, I’m 
not saying everything was up to date but there was plenty of things running.

Interviewer: What were they making in the factories you’d go through?

Dugan: We never knew that.

Interviewer: They weren’t obviously making guns, or ammunition.

Dugan: Well, no it wasn’t obvious. I’m sure if you could, get into it you could 
find out, but it wasn’t obvious.

Interviewer: Yeah, did you see any of the bombed out cities in the Ruhr?

Dugan: Oh bombed out cities?  Of course, plenty of them all over the place, that’s 
the way it was.

Interviewer: What did you think of that?

Dugan: Well, I had various thoughts, sometimes I thought of how fortunately they 
were that it wasn’t bombed out worse then it was, and others was some terrible 
conditions.  I don’t know.  All in all it wasn’t that bad.  That would be my 
general statement.  Even so the people suffered terribly.

Interviewer: Did you think they deserved it?

Dugan: Did they, pardon?

Interviewer: Did you think they deserved it?

Dugan: I never thought of them as deserving it.  But they obviously did deserve it 
for one thing, horrors that they perpetrated sure.  But I never, never  thought of 
them in that sense, ‘Oh there’s a German soldier I’ll stick a knife in him, or 
something’ no, none of that.

Interviewer: Do you know anybody who did feel that way?

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: No?

Dugan: No.  I didn’t, that wasn’t, it didn’t, it wasn’t quite a conversational 
thing.  I don’t know whether we were beyond it or whether, too involved in saving 
our own.

Interviewer: No, but you could also see it in how other people would act, whether 
they were particularly mean or nasty or?

Dugan: I didn’t see that at all.

Interviewer: No?

Dugan: The other people weren’t mean.  Maybe they were but I didn’t see it.

Interviewer: Another feature of the war in Ruhr that’s talk about is, American and 
British soldiers both, coming across small towns, with the diehard Nazis who 
wouldn’t give up, or the one kid with a panzerfaust who would fire at a truck or a 
tank as it went through town. Did you see any of that?

Dugan: No.  I didn’t see it, I don’t think it existed too much.  I think that kind 
of a thing was not for guys right under fire, that was for something to discuss and 
think about later, didn’t think about at that, save your own bottom.

Interviewer: Did you share any food or rations with civilians?

Dugan: I didn’t personally. You know, you weren’t, no fraternization, that was very 
strictly enforced.  And besides which they disappeared, we didn’t know where they, 
they were mostly in the cellars and basements and things, you could see them when 
something let up, they’d come out, but they were completely sheltered and would run 
away from the war, we were in.

Interviewer: Would you come across towns where they obviously were trying surrender 
and say ‘we’re done?’

Dugan: No, no.  It was too complete and too quick I guess.  Overwhelm them before 
they knew what happened they were so surrendered and captured.  I didn’t see any 
horror scenes at all.

Interviewer: When the Ruhr pocket collapses, and the Germans in the Ruhr surrender, 
what happened next, for you, where did you go next?  Did you go across Germany, 
towards the Russians, did you go south?

Dugan: Oh no, pretty much stayed where we were.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: You know, it was a nonevent almost.  Just, just knocked around.  There was so 
many of us.

Interviewer: Well I’m talking about before the war was over, you still had a good 
month to go.

Dugan: Well you couldn’t you couldn’t move.  I mean, you were prohibited from that, 
and you had no access, no way of doing it.  I mean, you, if you were, if, a company, 
or a regiment or whatever you were with was moving you’d move with it.

Interviewer: So your division stayed in the Ruhr?

Dugan: Right. Right.

Interviewer: Okay, so it cleaned out the Ruhr, it didn’t take part in the pursuit?

Dugan: Right, right for a long time after that.

Interviewer: Right, did you encounter and prisoners of wars.

Dugan: Not in, depends on what you mean.

Interviewer: American or French-

Dugan: Oh, no not ours.

Interviewer: No?

Dugan: Very seldom.

Interviewer: Who was working in the factories that you liberated?

Dugan: The…captured people working in the factories.

Interviewer: Like whom?

Dugan: I don’t know. Eastern People.

Interviewer: Poles?

Dugan: Poles and whatever.  Because they were always hungry, always begging for 
food.

Interviewer: How did the Germans treat them, do you think?

Dugan: I think they ignored them always probably felt superior to them.

Interviewer: Was it slave labor you think or?

Dugan: Well I don’t think slave labor, that would be the right word.  Cause they 
weren’t, they weren’t dominated, persecuted in that sense, to my knowledge. 

Interviewer: Were they paid?...Were they paid?

Dugan: Oh no, no. Paid?

Interviewer: Yeah.  They were put to work.

Dugan: Not to my knowledge. Who would pay them?

Interviewer: Exactly.

Dugan: Where would you get the money to pay them?

Interviewer: So in a sense it was slave labor, then.

Dugan: Well I mean, maybe there were plenty of occasions that happened but, 
not, not among the…

Interviewer: What was the attitude of American soldiers towards the displaced 
persons?

Dugan: Towards Displaced Persons?...Keep them away from me.  Don’t bother them with 
me, don’t bother me with them, just not terribly concerned, just didn’t want to be 
involved, and just walked away.

Interviewer: How did you feel about that. 

Dugan: It was the way it was.  You didn’t, first of all, you weren’t supposed to.  
They didn’t want any fraternization or I told you, not just fraternization, you 
couldn’t talk to them so it was very much a distinct policy of the U.S. Forces to 
keep the troops from speaking to enemy or to the allied soldiers, it didn’t happen.  
And it didn’t happen for two reasons, one they were always separated, the units 
were separated, and secondly they, they didn’t want it to happen.  So they 
prevented it.  I didn’t know any other soldiers.

Interviewer: Were you involved or did you have occasion to see, any liberated 
prison camps or concentration camps?

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: No?

Dugan: The division I was with didn’t.  The division my brother was with, saw plenty 
of it.

Interviewer: Right.

Dugan: But he was always talking about the poor people and liberated and we always, 
they always there, because they were always starving, and anything to get something 
to eat but, no we didn’t, I didn’t, I wasn’t faced much with that.  Not that, it 
wasn’t I think, it just happened that my group fighting more then they did-

Interviewer: You were just in a different area.

Dugan: The enemy, the other people stayed away, they didn’t want to get shot and 
wounded.

Interviewer: Are there any units or divisions that you served with, in addition to 
the 75th, that stand out?

Dugan: Say that again.

Interviewer: Are there any other units or division besides the 75th that stand out 
in your mind, that you were with?

Dugan: Oh yeah, some of the other divisions, they stood out, but I didn’t know 
particulars, because it was just that, they were always on the attack.

Interviewer: What was your-

Dugan: They fought more then we did in this sense.

Interviewer: Like who?

Dugan: 3rd. Or Patton, Patton was famous so, couldn’t keep him still.

Interviewer: What was your opinion of Patton?

Dugan: My opinion of him?  Thank god I’m not in his divisions.  You know, because 
they were really fearless, he was I guess, but not the soldiers, because they were 
the ones who had to go fighting, but they were pretty ruthless. Not ruthless mean, 
just, nothing would stop them.

Interviewer: What about the airborne divisions?

Dugan: The airborne divisions?

Interviewer: What did you think of those guys?

Dugan: didn’t see much of them. No.

Interviewer: What was there reputation?

Dugan: I guess, I don’t know, I really don’t, I don’t know of any airborne.  You 
mean like the 82nd and 101st?  We relieved the 101st in, I don’t know where it 
was, probably in the Ruhr someplace.  You know, they were just, same as us.  They 
were just, they didn’t stand out, they-

[END OF SIDE A]

[BEGINNING OF SIDE B]

Interviewer: What about individual leaders, if I were to give you some names 
would you tell me what you thought about them at the time?

Dugan: Not in among the soldiers I was with, they were, they weren’t leaders in 
the sense that the, company commander was the leader.

Interviewer: Well I’m thinking about people like General Bradley-

Dugan: Oh, oh, oh.

Interviewer: Think of someone like Bradley-

Dugan: Yeah, well we, you know, General Patton, Patton was a fighting, you were 
with Patton you knew damn well you were going to be-

Interviewer: In trouble.

Dugan: -in the midst of it.

Interviewer: What about Bradley?

Dugan: Bradley?  Neutral sort of.  And Hodges, Neutral.

Interviewer: Samson?

Dugan: Who?

Interviewer: Samson?

Dugan: Simpson.

Interviewer: Simpson rather.

Dugan: We wouldn’t, he was, he was in the first of ninth army, divisions, Army-

Interviewer: Army.

Dugan: -Army not Divisions.

Interviewer: What was his reputation?

Dugan: Yeah, Simpson, he had a good reputation.  Sort of an ugly duck.

Interviewer:  [laughs] I’ve seen pictures of him, yeah.

Dugan: But he was there all the time, he was a leader I thought he was one of the, 
big leaders you know?

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: But we never saw him personally.

Interviewer: But you, you had your own beliefs on him.

Dugan: Oh yeah, sure because, we would get Yank and that newspaper, something to 
read, and, we’d just devour them, just to get some information, but uh…

Interviewer: What about Eisenhower? What did you all think of Eisenhower?

Dugan: Everybody thought Eisenhower was great, I think, I certainly thought he 
was great.

Interviewer: What about Montgomery?

Dugan: Same thing except English, you know the usual, nonsense of Americans, 
English.

Interviewer: What about De Gaulle?

Dugan: Well the same thing although the French were had that reputation of being 
obstructionist or personally, you know, different, temperamental.

Interviewer: What about FDR?

Dugan: FDR?  Everybody loved FDR.

Interviewer: Where, when did you learn about FDR’s death? Can you describe the 
moment of learning about FDR’s death.

Dugan: Well…no I can’t remember, it was in April wasn’t it.

Interviewer: April 20th.

Dugan: I don’t remember.  I thought it was great loss, and if it had happened, many 
months earlier we would have been scared to death, but by that time, we had, we 
were on the offense, we, nothing could stop the America, so we didn’t need him in 
a sense.

Interviewer: Yeah, what about Stalin?

Dugan: He was a great soldier though, but they had plenty of great soldiers.

Interviewer: What about Stalin?

Dugan: Stalin?  He was almost a fictional character, you know, you couldn’t, 
couldn’t get a grip on him, he was not something that we, he wasn’t real, you know.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan:  Stories about Stalin but…

Interviewer: Did you, you never met any Russians did you ever any, what was your 
opinion of the Russians?

Dugan: I thought they were great…bore the brunt of the all the fighting.  I used 
to think ‘thank god I’m not in their outfit.’  Boy!  Because it was just incredible, 
but I wasn’t thank goodness.

Interviewer: Where were you, when you learned about V-E Day?

Dugan: About V-E Day?

Interviewer: Yeah, where were you on V-E day?

Dugan: I don’t even remember.

Interviewer: Somewhere in Germany, right?

Dugan:  Oh yeah, sure.

Interviewer: What was it like? Can you describe the day?

Dugan:  It was just a day like all the, wasn’t a lot of celebration or anything, 
it was just, I guess it took so long coming, that alright, lets here, we won the 
war and that’s the end of it.  Yeah, it was no celebration or anything and no 
shooting guns off or anything like that.  I don’t think.  And whisky was so hard 
to come by that you couldn’t say ‘let’s have a drink’ or something like that.  No 
it was just, I don’t want to say it was a non-event but it wasn’t, it wasn’t 
tumultuous kind of a thing, we just won the war or something like that.  Just 
happened.

Interviewer: Well there was still the war going on-

Dugan: Oh sure there was plenty, sure there was a war going on but for some reason, 
I don’t look like I’m too strained there do I?

Interviewer: No. Well what was your, your thoughts about going to Japan?

Dugan: Oh that didn’t exist, we knew the war wouldn’t last for Japan.

Interviewer: You knew that it would be done before you got there or were you 
hoping?

Dugan: Oh yeah, this was the end of it, this was right in, closing down right 
there.  And that was just in Holland.

Interviewer: So you expected the war to be over before you got there.

Dugan: Oh sure, absolutely.

Interviewer: What were your thoughts when you heard about the Atomic Bomb?

Dugan: On the Atomic Bomb?  Just marveled at it, but it wasn’t, in the sense it 
wasn’t real we didn’t expect an Atomic Bomb to be dropped anywhere or something.  
But I thought that ended it.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: I think I was in England someplace when that happened.

Interviewer: So you were on your way home already, or were you over in England?

Dugan: No, no, I wasn’t on the way home, no, not at all. I didn’t, re-enlist in 
the army, the war ended in what in?

Interviewer: May forty-five.

Dugan: May forty-five for us.  Nobody was discharge until close to forty-six or.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: Cause they, they had the point system, you know, that was really, they lived 
by that-

Interviewer: How’d that work for you?

Dugan: Well it worked, first of all it was how many months you were, in the service, 
how many overseas, how many campaigns you were in, how many campaign tours, battle 
stars and things like that.  All I got five points-

Interviewer: How many points did you have?

Dugan: About eighty or something like that.

Interviewer: You needed what a hundred?

Dugan: Oh no, it wasn’t a question of minimum, it was just…

Interviewer: But you had Eighty.

Dugan: Right.

Interviewer: Right, I was going to say you needed for early discharge you needed 
how many?

Dugan: I wasn’t early discharged, I didn’t get out until, end of forty-five.

Interviewer: But to be early discharged, you needed over a hundred.

Dugan: Oh yes, yes.

Interviewer: Did you know anyone who had more than, who had the hundred?

Dugan: …If I did, nobody talked about it or anything.  Again it was a non-event 
because you couldn’t control it, it didn’t mean anything.  Somebody else was 
counting and if you had some he told you and if you didn’t have them he told you 
also, but you had no control or nothing to say about it?

Interviewer: What did your family think of home about the idea that the war was 
over and you and your brother had survived it?

Dugan: Well they, very happy I’m sure.

Interviewer: They didn’t, they didn’t write you or send letters or?

Dugan: No, just relief I guess.  Plus my brother and I used to write every day if 
we could, very good, children.

Interviewer: The wars over, there’s now the next stage, which is the, 
administration of the occupation.  Were you involved at all in any of the civil 
affairs work?

Dugan: Oh no, not civil affairs, no.

Interviewer: No?

Dugan: No. Not at my level, they didn’t want me, privates, PFCs doing that.

Interviewer: Not even guard duty or assisting of hospitals.

Dugan: Again Medics I was in, we didn’t do that, since we weren’t, had no arms, 
never.

Interviewer: You were-

Dugan: One day we went to the firing range, I think they did that just so you knew, 
they knew, there was such a thing as a gun.  But uh, I had no, no, and they didn’t 
bother us with it or anything. It just didn’t exist. 

Interviewer: You weren’t expected to help with hospitals or care-

Dugan: Oh no, no, no.

Interviewer: -for the sick?

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: Distribution of Food?

Dugan: They had plenty of troops for that, I’m sure, maybe they, maybe guys who 
were close with, but not, not men in, in division, not medics in divisions no.

Interviewer: So you just basically spent the whole time in camp?

Dugan: I’m sorry?

Interviewer: You spent the whole time in camp after the war?

Dugan: Just knocking around.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: You know, it’s not much to do.

Interviewer: What did you think of the efforts to clean up the German government, 
after the war.

Dugan: Well I hate to say it but it was above me and I didn’t, I didn’t involve, 
I couldn’t involve myself with it and know anything about it or anything.

Interviewer: But you were there, I mean you saw it happen.

Dugan: Yes.

Interviewer: Did you think it was necessary?

Dugan: I guess.

Interviewer: Were you there-

Dugan: It was so, it was so civil compared to, you know the idea that it was a, an 
enemy at war in a world war, but it was so civil, civilized there was no, didn’t, 
you know you didn’t look at on the German as, looking down on them or hating them, 
or seeing German soldiers, just, just natural, I don’t know, maybe it was unique 
for us but-

Interviewer: Did you hear any accounts of civilians being mistreated?

Dugan: No.  No.

Interviewer: By allied soldiers? No?

Dugan: Never.  I’m, I don’t think there was much of it, if it existed.  
I’m sure, everything exists but we didn’t have that much.

Interviewer: I understand that your saying you were discouraged from fraternizing 
but there was a lot of fraternization when the war ended.

Dugan: When the war ended?

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: That’s, male-female-

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: -Right. But not, not much in, like in organizations or anything.

Interviewer: Right.

Dugan: I don’t know why but I don’t think I was certainly with a lot of educated, 
intelligent people, cause they were all out of ASTP and-

Interviewer: Right.

Dugan: -you know, and out of colleges you could hardly meet anybody who hadn’t 
been a college graduate, a college student so uh…

Interviewer: So you were good, you would say.

Dugan: Well it was more, it was more then just basic education cause, that existed 
too and you could tell, they guys that had rural education.  But most of us were 
college people. 

Interviewer: So no-
	
Dugan: Not that, not that people looked up on it as something especiall or something 
it just, that’s the way it was.

Interviewer: Did you know of anybody, who took a war bride? A war bride?

Dugan: Took a war-bot?

Interviewer: Bride?

Dugan: No, no. I don’t how you could do that.

Interviewer: No?

Dugan: You couldn’t, bride?

Interviewer: Well when the war’s over.  Meeting in somebody in England or France.

Dugan: That happened, much later, not after the war, was the troops were still 
there.
 
Interviewer: Right.

Dugan: The troops were, I’m talking about when the troops were still under their 
own command.

Interviewer: Right.

Dugan: But…I guess after a while, things got loose I guess.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Dugan: And I thought, by the time I was gone.

Interviewer: What was the morale of the unit after the war ended.

Dugan: Very good. I didn’t, I never saw poor morale.

Interviewer: No drunkenness, no misbehavior?

Dugan: No, no, no, nonsense.

Interviewer: It happened-

Dugan: I’m sure it happened, cause so maybe G.I.s were so…what’s the word?  
Obstreperous I guess.  They were always looking for a fight or something, argue.

Interviewer: Did you ever see problems related to soldiers who just wanted to go home?

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: No, no demonstrations or?

Dugan: No no I didn’t, didn’t happen either.  Maybe, maybe those kind of situations 
were much later, I’m sure, for the period I’m talking about, it was still too close 
to the war, the situation was obvious there, it, troops were, combat troops were 
still there so.

Interviewer: What was, what did you think the world would be like after the war? 

Dugan: What it would be like after?

Interviewer: What was you expectations, if you remember them?

Dugan: All I wanted to do was get home..

Interviewer: Yeah, you didn’t expect the Russians would be a problem or, any-

Dugan: No, there was plenty of that but I don’t, I don’t they, we thought about it.  
Maybe it was because we were so separated for so long, there was never any close 
relations between American troops and other national troops, we didn’t know them at 
all.

Interviewer: Okay.

Dugan: They hardly knew what the theatre what their routines were.

Interviewer: Okay.

Dugan: And I guess rightfully so you couldn’t have.

Interviewer: Tell me about your trip home.  Tell me about when you went home.

Dugan: I’m so sorry-

Interviewer: When you went home.  Tell me about when you went home?

Dugan: [?]…I don’t know whether I’m, I’m not a callous person but it just didn’t, 
it was a non-event, I expected to come home, and I came home, and my, I don’t think 
I was home a week my mother said to my brother and I time ‘to go back to the school’ 
so we went right back to school.  We didn’t, we were both students at Queens College 
at the time, and so we just go right back to school as soon as the term end, started, 
which happened to be at the end of the year, started again in January, I never missed 
any time.

Interviewer: Well before we get to that, let me ask you, did you leave from Britain?  
Or did you leave from France to get home?

Dugan: We left from Holland, Antwerp.

Interviewer: From Antwerp?  Ocean Liner?

Dugan: Liberty Ship kind of thing.

Interviewer: Liberty Ship, how long was the trip back?

Dugan: ‘Bout a week.

Interviewer: Do you remember the ship, the name of the ship?

Dugan: Independence.

Interviewer: Okay.

Dugan: I had that written down someplace.  Independence.

Interviewer: How many-

Dugan: It was a Liberty Ship, plenty of, it was comfortable.

Interviewer: How many guys were on the ship with you?

Dugan: Oh, several hundred, I, Liberty Ship was a pretty big sized ship.

Interviewer: Yeah?

Dugan: And especially when it’s carrying troops.  Troops were like that you know, 
[?] I had a couple of close buddies who happened to be in regiment headquarters, 
and they always had cabins or rooms, and I would stay with them.  Course you could 
disappear, I disappear, wasn’t any question of disappearing, just would, left and 
your on your own and I don’t know if they, whoever was the, in charge of the group 
I was with, that didn’t seem even the, one end of the weeks until the other end.  
It was very loose.  I wouldn’t loose that’s a bad term, in the military, but I mean 
it wasn’t strict or anything.

Interviewer: Where did you come into port at?

Dugan: …What’s in Virginia what is it?

Interviewer: Hampton Roads, Norfolk?

Dugan: Yeah, Newport News, it was Newport News.

Interviewer: Yeah, that’s in Virginia. It’s outside of Virginia Beach.

Dugan: Yeah, and stayed there. And no, no duty or anything, just…

Interviewer: When they-

Dugan: -fooled around and-

Interviewer: When they finally Demoed you? When were you Demobbed, or Demobilized?

Dugan: …I guess it was…I don’t quite remember but, It can’t have been more then, 
two months or any, I don’t think, it wasn’t a long, and still it wasn’t like next 
week or anything, either. But it was tolerable so we all knew it was coming, we 
just had to wait our turn.

Interviewer: Hurry up and wait one last time.

Dugan: Hurry up and wait.

Interviewer: So you got back home and mom was waiting for you and said ‘Go back to 
school.’

Dugan: My mother and father were still alive. James and I had not been wounded or 
anything, injured.

Interviewer: Was there anybody in your immediate circle who didn’t come back?

Dugan: No.  James was with the 30th division.  Which was a very, really, good.

Interviewer: Well-known division, yeah.

Dugan: And, as a platoon leader, you know he progressed, he became executive 
officer that second in command, if he had stayed longer he would have been a 
company commander but thank god that averred.  I, I got to be a private first 
class.  Six months in Europe and you had to be Private First Class.

Interviewer: Well you weren’t interested in re-enlisting or anything?

Dugan: I wasn’t interested in rank, never was.

Interviewer: Yeah.  So when you got back to Queens did you, run into anybody who 
did not go into service.

Dugan: No.

Interviewer: The 4Fs or?

Dugan: I can’t remember anybody.

Interviewer: Yeah.  What was the reception back at like Queens College when you 
arrived?

Dugan: Nothing out of the ordinary just started again, just like, summer vacation 
was over, you started again in September, it was the same thing.

Interviewer: ‘Kay. 

Dugan: Or the, my age group or something, it was just very calm and collected or 
whatever, but there was no, nothing to be talked about or anything.

Interviewer: Any of the faculty remember you?

Dugan: Pardon?

Interviewer: Did any of the faculty remember you?

Dugan: I think of Ms. Boudro in the French department remembered me.

Interviewer: Otherwise no.

Dugan: Did anyone that you know from your first year at Queens not come home?

Interviewer: Anyone from your first year at Queens. Did you know anyone that did not 
come home?

Dugan: …I can’t think of anybody off hand. Very few casualties. I’m sure there 
were but I can’t remember.  None of my close friends were wounded or killed.  
Pete McGurr was killed.  He, but he, flew one of those night fighters, so what 
else did you expect?  Yeah he was killed.

Interviewer: Who was this again?

Dugan: Pete McGurr.

Interviewer: McGurr.

Dugan: And he had a brother, not a brother, Kay McGurr, younger sister, she 
married a fraternity brother of mine, I still see her on occasion.

Interviewer: He, you said he was flying night fighters, in the Pacific?

Dugan: Pardon?

Interviewer: He was flying night fighters, you said, McGurr?

Dugan: Oh, I, no not in the Pacific, I don’t know where it was.

Interviewer: Yeah, it’s a hazardous job to say the least.

Dugan: Oh yes, hazardous job.  They all were hazardous jobs, but I don’t remember.

Interviewer: What was the, the, to close out today’s interview, looking over the 
war experience, how would you summarize it?

Dugan: Not too bad.  You know…there were moments in combat when you were pretty 
scared, and that lasted quite a while too, it was always up in Northern France 
and Holland and...what’s the other country in the middle?

Interviewer: Belgium.

Dugan: Pardon?

Interviewer: Belgium.

Dugan: Belgium yes.  That, how can I forget that?  The Bulge was in Belgium.

Interviewer: Right.

Dugan: Luxembourg.  Well…command was always good, I had no problems.  Again maybe 
it was partly because we were medics rather then, I doubt it though, we were just 
ordinary troops.

Interviewer: Okay.

Dugan: Still all told, it wasn’t to bad of a situation, and my brother who’s with 
our fighting outfight, same thing, we survived and that was it.  No wounded. 

Interviewer: Pretty significant experience, Second World War.  For Americans, the 
Second World War is a significant experience.

Dugan: Oh yeah, sure.

Interviewer: Did it teach you anything about your identity or yourself? That maybe 
you took for granted?

Dugan: No, only that I’m not that kind of a guy that gets terribly concerned about 
things like that.  I expected that there was a war, I was in combat, I was with an 
infantry division, and so what?  And so a little time goes by and if your not killed, 
you were, you lasted out.  So it wasn’t all that bad. And, that has to be a very strange…

Interviewer: No.

Dugan: Accountability.

Interviewer: -No, it’s-

Dugan: I didn’t, it wasn’t, you know there’s, always, no creature comforts, 
discomfort everything was there that we needed, command was good, nobody harassing 
us or giving us a hard time, you know?

Interviewer: What did you or what do you think about how the war’s been remembered?  
About how the war has been portrayed?

Dugan: I think it’s glamorized.  I think people glamorize what the situation was.  
It’s easy to do that when you’ve been in combat but…combat is a strange kind of 
experience, because you can’t, you can’t control anything, you’re always on edge, 
what’s going to happen.  But, always proud that it happened when you survived.  
You know.

Interviewer: Well I think that’s where we’re going to run up against it today and 
our last interview I’d like to interview both you and your wife-

Dugan: I’ll-

Interviewer: -About Queens College.

Dugan: Oh okay.

Interviewer: During your time there.

Dugan: I started again, I started in nineteen forty-two, on my, just telling you.

Interviewer: Right.

Dugan: Started I think in nineteen forty-four.  And I didn’t know her until I met 
her on the campus, when I came back…James had been, what do you call it?  Junior 
when he was drafted, and…then he had an opportunity to go to OCS and went.  And 
then really got into a division that was saw a lot of combat, but you know, he 
survived, no injuries.

Interviewer: Okay. Good okay. Lets close here.

Dugan: Thank you for your-

[END OF RECORDING]



End of Tape 02 of 03

--------------------------------------------------------------------

WWII Veteran Transcript
Subject: Donald Dugan & Gloria Dugan
Interviewer: Bobby Alan Wintermute
Tape Number: 03 of 03
Interview Date:
Transcriber:


Transcription Date:



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 Interviewer: Third interview session, Don and Gloria Dugan, October 17th 2008. 
 While we're waiting for Gloria lets recap Don, our last two interview sessions 
 detailed your military service, you began your entering the session, covered 
 basic training, your training in the states.  That we talked at length about 
 your service overseas, and now we're bringing you home.  Now as I recall 
 correctly you left France in the Spring on 1946.
 
 Dugan: To come home?
  
 Interviewer: Yes.
  
 Dugan: No.  I don't think it was.
 
 Interviewer: Why don't you tell us about coming home, recap it yourself?
  
 Dugan: ...Having a hard time...I can't think of it right now.
  
 Interviewer: Okay.  Okay, Gloria you want to?
 
 Gloria: I think he said he came home New Year's Day.
 
 Dugan: No, I didn't come home New Year's-
 
 Gloria: New Year's.  You came across in the winter.
  
 Dugan: Oh in the winter yes, but New Year's Day would have been a special day.
  
 Gloria: Well you said everybody was violent ill because-
  
 Dugan: Oh yes.
  
 Gloria: The seas were so high, everybody was beyond the pale, it was just, 
 nobody up and about.  And that was-
  
 Dugan: Have you ever been seasick?
  
 Interviewer: No, I haven't sea long enough to be seasick, yeah.
  
 Gloria: But it was January.
  
 Interviewer: Yeah.
  
 Gloria: He came home in January because I know, because he told me when he got 
 home, he wasn't but a short time and his mother said school begins next week, so-
  
 Interviewer: They wasted no time then-
  
 Gloria: No, no.
  
 Dugan: My mother?
  
 Interviewer: They shipped you right out to school.
  
 Gloria: Right, so that was January.
  
 Dugan: Fortunately we live at home when we went to school and we just went to to 
 Queens College, it was just, the bus, come up to Hillside Avenue and make the bus.
  
 Gloria: It was January Forty-Six.
  
 Interviewer: What was Queens College like, the campus like, around Queens, the 
 area around this campus like in Forty-Five, Forty-Six.
 
 Dugan: No, the word isn't gratuities but no-
 
 Interviewer: No amenities?
 
 Dugan: No, pleasant amenities! No amenities.
 
 Gloria: It was really in a rural area, next door was a farm.
 
 Dugan: It was, you'd hardly think it was a college campus it was just a, the area 
 was called the Quadrangle, there wasn't even a bench on it, just an open field, 
 and the facility had been children adolesc- what are they called?
 
 Gloria: Juvenile delinquents.
 
 Interviewer: Juvenile Home.
 
 Dugan: Yeah, Juvenile Hall.
 
 Interviewer: Before it became a college?
 
 Gloria: That's correct.
 
 Dugan: Yeah.
 
 Gloria: And there was the farm next door which was run by-
 
 Dugan: And, and long after it became a college, it was the same thing they never 
 made any improvements.
 
 Gloria: The next door was a farm that was really cultivated and I think it was 
 part of Farmingdale, it was part of New York State, but at that point it, we 
 didn't understand all of that-
 
 Dugan: Across, across the street, what was across the street?  Kissena Boulevard 
 was Promenade Golf Course.
 
 Gloria: Yeah, there was a country club there which is now occupied by the project, 
 Electchester which was built by the Electrical Union.  That's [?] income housing.  
 But on all sides there was nothing the only thing on the corner there, was the	
 Huddle, it was a small diner kind of place where people went for Hamburgers and 
 whatever, cause remember during the war there was no cafeteria, because the 
 troops lived in the Library.
 
 Dugan: Right.
 
 Gloria: And G-Building, so, and very few people had cars, everybody took the bus, 
 even the professors, a lot of the professors were of foreign extraction I guess 
 during the war and so there was a campus where the students were engaged 
 because it was a school where you had to take the test.  So it was grueling, I 
 mean I don't think it was any walk in the park, going to Queens.
 
 Interviewer: Well before we talk about the curriculum at Queens during the war I 
 want to get a sense of when, in your memory, the development of Flushing in that 
 area began.
 
 Gloria: Well downtown Flushing was very well-developed, I lived in Flushing and 
 there was a library on the corner of Kissena and Main Street.
 
 Interviewer: Right.
 
 Gloria: And it was an upper class, upper class because most people owned their 
 homes there were very few apartment houses.
 
 Interviewer: Right.
 
 Gloria: And it was a quiet scenario, Queens College was very quiet on campus.  
 It was not any rowdy.  The big thing they would have, a St. Patrick's Day parade 
 and that was fun, and they'd bring a big white horse in and outrageous nonsense.  
 There was never any, any anti-semitism.  There was never anything of that nature 
 that I could remember.  I don't think anybody knew if anyone black, white, or 
 green or yellow. 
 
 Interviewer: Well I was going to ask you what was the predominant ethnic makeup 
 of Flushing at that time.
 
 Gloria: I think they were WASPs. You know, white Caucasian.  Very, they were all-
 
 Interviewer: So even very few Irish in the area?
 
 Gloria: Yes Irish, Italians, Polish, Germans, there were very few, no Russians, 
 there were Jewish people too, one of my neighbors was Jewish and no absolutely 
 no-
 
 Dugan: No Ethniciticity.
 
 Gloria: In terms of detrimental to anybody people went to school, you see, the 
 people that age their parents had seen the depression and they were very 
 concerned about education and holding on to the houses, we’re going through a 
 Déjà vu, I mean people were concerned about losing houses, losing jobs, they’d 
 just come out of the depression, of course the War made everything perfect, 
 because everything improved after the war but people were not wealthy, people 
 did not have cars, if you had one car in the family that was it, and that was 
 fortunate.
 
 Interviewer: Well lets, lets ask you about your life during wartime, what do you 
 recall life being like at home?
 
 Gloria: During the war? I had a younger brother but he was not in the service 
 and my father had a position which he never lost in the depression, I wasn’t in 
 the depression but-
 
 Interviewer: What was his position?
 
 Gloria: He was in the insurance business, he actually represented the company in 
 working compensat. cases in the courts, and he had that job until he retired.  
 We didn’t want for anything in terms of food, or clothing, but there weren’t a 
 lot, there wasn’t a lot of clothing, I mean you had a good dress or you had shoes 
 but you took care of them and they weren’t, people weren’t into trends ‘I’ll buy 
 this today because I like it’ and everybody seemed to understand that, nobody 
 felt deprived.
 
 Interviewer: Do you recall the rationing at all?
 
 Gloria: Oh of course I do.  We got books in the mail and they had symbols, they 
 were little stamps and, each of the symbols represented something which you 
 could buy.  And I do remember distinctly the airplane was for shoes, and there 
 were some for butter and some for meat and silk stockings, and they were all 
 rationed and we didn’t really worry about it, we used the coupon.  People, one 
 summer we worked and it’s kind of an interesting sideline, everybody worked, I 
 mean everybody worked, nobody had time off to find themselves, they found 
 themselves already, and I worked in the OPA on 34th street and it was your, your 
 duty to, if your son went into the service to return the ration book, and so 
 people did return the ration books, you know, in today’s world that would never 
 happen, people would have said ‘ha sure, I’ll take those stamps and I’ll spend 
 them, and nobody would be able to get-
 
 Interviewer: It’s hard though when it’s everybody knows everybody’s business.
 
 Gloria: Yeah, Actually it was interesting that people were extremely pleasant, 
 and extremely friendly, however there was a scenario, a situation where people 
 were very unto themselves nobody really knew everybody’s business.  Neighbors 
 always addressed themselves, the women always addressed themselves as misses.  
 If you were very close to your next door neighbor your dad might address the 
 gentlemen next door by his first name, but it was a very formal scenario, and 
 children always addressed their adults with misses or mister or whatever, and 
 it was really a, we didn’t feel deprived-
 
 Dugan: Civil.
 
 Gloria: No not at all.
 
 Dugan: Very Civil.
 
 Interviewer: Very civil you said, Don?
 
 Dugan: Everybody had good manners and, civil, just a…
 
 Gloria: People were helpful but they weren’t busy and they weren’t nosey.  They 
 would, you know, help people and so forth, Don can tell you in the war, before 
 the war, he had neighbors that were out of work and, he said that his parents 
 would send food to the neighbor-
 
 Dugan: Oh yeah.
 
 Gloria: Because, the man had a position that was, just disappeared.  Like we’re 
 gonna have now, Roofers, Plumbers things like that.
 
 Interviewer: Going back to the war and rationing, is there anything you regretted 
 most, not being able to have?
 
 Gloria: No I didn’t, again I worked, I had a lot of jobs, we all did, and I worked 
 in a department store, I worked in McCurs which is no longer there, it was on 34th 
 Street, and as a part timer, we used to work Thursday night and Saturdays, wherever 
 they needed you that day, you worked in that department, so you got to know the 
 whole nine yards of the whole store.  So very frequently I would work in stockings, 
 which was on the main floor and the buyer kind of liked me, so sometimes she’d say 
 you know, we’re gonna get stocking and so then I would have my coupon and I’d buy 
 eight pair of stockings, so that was the way it went and, no we didn’t have any 
 problem with that.
 
 Interviewer: Did you run into any circumstance, or hear of close to you any 
 circumstance involving the black market for rationed goods?
 
 Gloria: No, we didn’t experience that at all, not that I-
 
 Interviewer: You didn’t hear stories of people, obviously for sugar or for meat or 
 for gasoline…
 
 Gloria: No, we didn’t have that, everybody had a ration for gasoline, and if you 
 had a position where you needed to drive your car, you got an extra coupon and 
 you could buy five more gallons of whatever but no, nobody, people just, and 
 people didn’t do the driving they do, we think lots of things were walkable in 
 those days, you could, it wasn’t down the corner but, you could walk four or five 
 blocks or ten blocks to the store.  And women did that, most women didn’t drive.  
 Don’s mother did drive, my mother did not, so you went to the grocery store, or 
 you went to the meat market you didn’t have to drive.
 
 Interviewer: Did you know Don before the war?
 
 Gloria: No.
 
 Interviewer: No?
 
 Gloria: No.
 
 Interviewer: Okay, when did you meet?
 
 Dugan: She was such a young thing.
 
 Gloria: I was young yeah, I was young and foolish-
 
 Dugan: I, excuse me, I started college in January forty-two, Gloria started in 
 January forty-four.
 
 Interviewer: So a two year difference.
 
 Gloria: Yeah, he’s three and a half years older then I am. I met Don in about 
 September forty-six.
 
 Interviewer: Before you met Don were you involved with anybody else? Did you meet 
 anybody else?
 
 Gloria: The boys and men were just coming back. No, I didn’t have any old 
 boyfriends.
 
 Interviewer: Okay, what about attitudes in your neighborhoods towards men who, 
 or young men who couldn’t go to serve.  Or didn’t go.
 
 Gloria: That was never discussed and there was no, bad feelings about them or, 
 it was just, maybe their parents felt that they got lucky that they didn’t have 
 to go, actually-
 
 Interviewer: No resentment that you know of?
 
 Gloria: No.  Absolutely none.  Absolutely none.  And we had a couple of them on 
 campus who were disabled, you know, mobile, but disabled and, they were fun.  
 There were about five men on the campus and you know, it was, there wasn’t issue 
 at all.  As a matter of fact, Bird Church-
 
 Dugan: Two,  Two of the men on campus were my fraternity brothers,  Joe Gazzone 
 and Bird Church.
 
 Gloria: Bird had a problem with his leg, excuse me, his leg which was a result 
 of swimming in Flushing Bay he got osteomyolitis and it never healed-
 
 Interviewer: Yeah.
 
 Gloria: And there was no Penicillin, and he’s now eighty seven years old and 
 he’s still alive and he’s still living with us and, family of seven children so.  
 And then Joe had a withered or some difficulty, but other then that, we 
 considered them perfectly normal and there wasn’t any problem.
 
 Interviewer: You hear accounts or, as a history you hear accounts of some people 
 exploiting their 4F status for various reasons, that clearly wasn’t that case here, 
 we also hear stories of ethnic disorder in communities where white Americans or 
 Anglos, mixed more closely with different ethnicities or different groups.  I’m 
 thinking for example in Los Angeles,  the Zoot Suit Riots or in Chicago and Detroit, 
 the ethnic riots over Blacks going to work in factories for the war effort was 
 there anything like that, that you are aware of, in New York or that you were 
 exposed to?
 
 Gloria: No, not at all.  There were pockets of blacks.  Corona was Italian, very, 
 very Italian and then the Blacks began to move in there and there may have been 
 some tension but there was never political, in the papers maybe like that.  There 
 were ver- I guess, in that era, the particular ethnic groups didn’t tend to move 
 into other areas because they were happy with the thing, Corona was Black, part 
 of Flushing by the railroad was black, very run down, it was awful.  They were, 
 I guess, not in where I lived, it was very mixed, they were, Midwesterners, but 
 there was kind of upper-class, upper-middle-class so it was very different.
 
 Interviewer: It really was an ‘other side of the tracks’ kind of mentality.
 
 Gloria: Yes, it was the other side of the tracks mentality.  Exactly, I mean 
 there wasn’t any intermingling even, not only fraternization, but intermingling, 
 I mean, when I went to Bayside High School there was one black boy in the whole 
 school.  One.  I’ll never forget it, he live on Oceania Street, so there weren’t 
 any blacks.  Queens College had very few as well.
 
 Interviewer: What was the attitude of students and faculty towards that?
 
 Gloria: Color Blind.
 
 Interviewer: Yeah?
 
 Gloria: Absolutely color blind, absolutely color blind.  We were color blind, it 
 didn’t matter to us.
 
 Interviewer: Right.
 
 Gloria: No, I don’t think that meant, not a bit. I think there would have been 
 dissatisfaction in the families had dating and marrying someone ethnic, that 
 wasn’t of your ethnic, not ethnic but color, I think that would be a big issue.  
 The Chinese didn’t even exist, that ran the laundry and they owned the restaurants 
 I mean, they just didn’t wherever they lived I don’t know where they lived, but 
 there was a Chinese Laundry, everybody had a Chinese laundry and the barber was 
 always Italian, the shoemaker was always Italian, the restaurants were Greeks and 
 Italians and, the, they just, the gas stations were just, all American whatever, 
 now they’re Turkish or whatever, so it really wasn’t, no there wasn’t any 
 difficulty whatsoever.  The faculty, they were just, I have to tell you Bob, the 
 students there, the biggest fear was to get thrown out because remember there 
 were no options, you, if you came home and said ‘Well guess what? Failed.’  It 
 would have been, I cannot tell you what it would have been. Right Don? It would 
 have been like the end of the world, you know, it wouldn’t be like ‘Let’s see 
 where we can find someplace else for you’ I don’t, that would not have happened, 
 you would have been right in the work force. I,  I’ll tell you a very funny story, 
 a friend of mine, it’s a little away from the subject, she was at Queens, she was 
 a little older then I am and she wasn’t, she was getting to the point she didn’t 
 think she was happy there, and she was getting harder, so she was going to drop 
 out.  So Dean Kiely, is, this school wasn’t enormous at that point, and Dean 
 Kiely was a very hands on person. A beautiful woman if I must say, and she must 
 gotten lists of people that were dropping out, being the Dean, and so she called 
 my friend Pat to the office and Pat gave her this spiel that, you know I can’t 
 stay because my parents can’t afford it for me to stay here, and Dean Kiely 
 looked her right in the eye and said, “Pat, with that Camel’s head jacket on 
 you’re giving me a snow job, and that is not true, and I don’t want you to drop 
 out.” And she didn’t, and she did graduate, but that was kind of a hands on 
 scenario, with the Dean.
 
 Interviewer: Well coming to this college in those days was free admission wasn’t 
 it?
 
 Gloria: Yes it was, the only thing we had to buy books and a couple of fees, but, 
 it wasn’t open admission, you had to have the, if you had, I can’t remember what 
 the average was, and then if you had just a little below that, they had an 
 admissions test and you could take, and then you’re on your own after that, you 
 know the comprehensives, and the required, you know, they were all required.
 
 Interviewer: Okay.  Before we give up on the war and [?] together, as you said 
 you worked, you had several jobs, what did you for leisure time, if there was any?
 
 Gloria: What did we do for leisure time?  Didn’t have much leisure time, obviously, 
 cause we went to school and school was, a whole day in those days. And they were 
 four days a week, at least, and you never had the fifth day off because you know, 
 they alternated and, Thursday night we worked, Saturday we worked, every single 
 day that was off we went to work you know, holidays, day after Christmas we went 
 to work, summers we worked, so there wasn’t and we dated, went to the movies, and 
 went to dances with the fraternity, beer parties and stuff like that, and nobody 
 ever got drunk because nobody, first place there wasn’t that much money and second 
 place how much beer could you drink?
 
 Dugan: And there was no drinking on the Campus.
 
 Gloria: No. Nobody drank on the Campus. Nobody really smoked either, it’s 
 interesting.  Some of the guys smoked, the guys that came back from the service.  
 But very few people smoked, you know-
 
 Interviewer: That is interesting.
 
 Gloria: Yeah, nobody really smoked, I can’t remember-, oh Patty Healey smoked, 
 somebody a couple, they didn’t have to say no smoking in the cafeteria cause 
 nobody did it, it was interesting.
 
 Dugan: And most of the men didn’t smoke either. And it’s interesting because, 
 in the service, they used to just give you cartons.  You know, and we’d go 
 immediately, go out and sell the cartons for whatever we could get for them.  
 But…no smoking. Well I didn’t smoke, I didn’t smoke when I came home and I 
 hardly smoke now.  I was never a big smoker, my brother James was a smoker but he 
 stopped, he just stopped, period.
 
 Interviewer: Switching back to you Don, you’ve come home, forty-six, your mother 
 tells you school starts next week.
 
 Dugan: Right.
 
 Interviewer: You’re going back  What was your, your feelings, your thoughts about 
 the college when you returned?
 
 Dugan: I’m sorry I didn’t-
 
 Interviewer: What was your thought about the college when you returned?
 
 Dugan: Well, I didn’t expect much from amenities from Queens College, they 
 didn’t have any.
 
 Interviewer: Had it changed at all?...Had it changed at all?
 
 Dugan: No it hadn’t changed at all, no, not at all.  Men who liked to play 
 basketball could either go out an unless [?], in the back out doors, or, in the 
 basement there was a, ceiling wasn’t any higher then this, and they could play a 
 little basketball, you know, but that was, they had no gymnasium or anything like 
 that.
 
 Interviewer: Well you were the first class to come back.
 
 Dugan: No, oh, just about, I guess…I guess.  I can’t, I was discharged in forty 
 six, right, I can’t even-
 
 Gloria: Forty Six.
 
 Dugan: Forty Six.
 
 Gloria: Right.
 
 Dugan: I guess.
 
 Interviewer: Did anyone that you know of, in your class, have trouble adjusting-
 
 Dugan: No.
 
 Interviewer: To life back home?
 
 Dugan: Just fit right back in, there was no pressure to do that, the only 
 pressure on it was grades, no other pressures.
 
 Gloria: Most of the families were intact too, and they had siblings, and 
 everyone was happy to see you come home.
 
 Interviewer: Well, I’m thinking about those cases too where family members 
 didn’t come home, I mean for example, the Bradley family, you know-
 
 Gloria: I didn’t know his older brother, Don did.
 
 Interviewer: You knew John Bradley then?
 
 Dugan: Oh yeah, he was in my fraternity.
 
 Interviewer: Yeah, Yeah.
 
 Dugan: He introduced me into the fraternity.
 
 Interviewer: What was your thoughts about learning that he wasn’t coming home?
 
 Dugan: That’s the way it was. Didn’t make it.
 
 Interviewer: Yeah.
 
 Dugan: No, no, great feeling or emotional feeling.
 
 Gloria: I knew one, I’m gonna tell you one that reported, because I wouldn’t 
 want, if you turn the recorder off I told you something that-
 
 Interviewer: Going off the record.
 
 [RECORDING STOPS THEN RESUMES]
 
 Interviewer: Back on the record…What were your thoughts about coming home and…
 seeing some men who hadn’t served, was there any resentment towards them?
 ...Towards men who had not served.
 
 Dugan: Oh no, none at all.
 
 Interviewer: No?
 
 Dugan: [laughs] I can’t remember anyone that hadn’t served.  I didn’t have that 
 feeling, no.
 
 Interviewer:  Did you-
 
 Dugan: Just it wasn’t any problem, you know? You’d say ‘Jeez this lucky guy 
 that got his 4F’ or something? No none, no, wasn’t an issue, it was a non-event.
 
 Interviewer: Did you come back to school with anyone who was seriously injured, 
 or disabled as a result of their injuries?
 
 Dugan: I’m sure there were, but I can’t remember anybody now.
 
 Interviewer: Okay…what was your thought about coming home and seeing that Queens 
 College had become a campus, to say, full of women?
 
 Dugan: Well it wasn’t any…it was, hardly called a campus because there were no 
 facilities, amenities as I said.
 
 Interviewer: But the-
 
 Dugan: Have you ever been up to Queens College?
 
 Interviewer: I teach at Queens College.
 
 Dugan: So you went to Queens, well there was never, I don’t know when you 
 graduated but probably wasn’t any different.
 
 Interviewer: That’s it’s no different now.
 
 Dugan: The Quadrangle is, was the same, nothing, it had no facilities, didn’t 
 even have enough books in the library you could only take a book out of the 
 library for two hours.
 
 Gloria: It was murder.
 
 Dugan: That was a, that was a bad problem.
 
 Gloria: You’d have an assignment-
 
 Dugan: They always gave you assignments, you always had to take assignments, for 
 that day, you know, homework for that night.
 
 Gloria: Had be back before evening, next morning.  Nobody had a clue, so you had 
 to, and if you could get the book, that was the big hassle, and you couldn’t take 
 it out, early in the day, because people were using it-
 
 Dugan: They only had two books-
 
 Gloria: So you have to wait until eight-
 
 Dugan: Copies of the Book.
 
 Gloria: And the next morning you had, it was unheard of not to return the book, 
 I mean I think they would have absolutely blown a whistle if you hadn't returned 
 the book-
 
 Interviewer: I’m sure your fellow students would have done it.
 
 Gloria: Absolutely.  Exactly.
 
 Dugan: I don’t know why the city didn’t sponsor more, I mean, so, so I don’t 
 want to say deprived, but limited in there.
 
 Interviewer: Well, Queens was established in thirty-nine, forty, nineteen-forty, 
 no, Queens College was, was-
 
 Gloria: Thirty Seven, right, in there? First class was forty one.
 
 Dugan: I think the first class was in forty one.
 
 Interviewer: First class was forty-one, so it would have been thirty-seven 
 you’re right.  So it hadn’t been in existence very long, and the war of course, 
 disrupted many of the plans for it…
 
 Dugan: I thought it was thirty eight that the, it was, the date.
 
 Gloria:  I say so the first class was forty-one.
 
 Interviewer: Tell me about the Pipe and Bowl fraternity.
 
 Dugan: About the Pipe and Bowl fraternity?
 
 Interviewer: What was it?
 
 Dugan: Well it was the premier fraternity on the campus, but it was only a 
 local or, there was only one national group, or greek letter thing, but I don’t 
 even remember who they were, so it was just local bunch of, I’d say…top 
 membership, this was, this was the, this was the, you know there weren’t too 
 many more of us then that. Then that there you just see that it was just a 
 local…oh was this all the Pipe and Bowl, yes it is.
 
 Interviewer: How often did you meet?
 
 Dugan: This, this was the fraternity at it’s height. 
 
 Interviewer: How often did you meet?  The fraternity members?
 
 Dugan: We used meet, in between classes [laughs].  Cause, we just met, Queens 
 College was on a quadrangle, and meet out at the lamp posts, kind of a thing, 
 but, if we met once a month, formally at somebody’s house, you know it’d have 
 to be at somebody’s house, sometimes we had rented a hall, when we were going 
 to have kind, a beer party or something like that, we’d have to rent the hall.
 
 Gloria: And they were wild.
 
 Interviewer: They were wild.
 
 Gloria: Not that they were wild, the places were wild, I mean they went back of 
 saloons, and basements and stuff like that. 
 
 Dugan: And there was very little drinking.
 
 Gloria: Very quiet.
 
 Dugan: Yeah, no, no, rowdyism.
 
 Interviewer: How many of them were of the members of the fraternity were in the 
 service?
 
 Dugan: Oh, I think everybody there was in the service.
 
 Gloria: He wasn’t it in because he had a short leg.
 
 Dugan: Gary Regalmen was in.
 
 Gloria: These guys were all in, this guy Henry wasn’t in, he was in my class so, 
 my class missed them. Kevin missed it.
 
 Dugan: Kevin’s brother.
 
 Gloria: We just went, uh lets see, he was in my class, so he missed it. I don’t 
 know about him. He was in, he was in, he was in my class, he was not in, he was 
 not in either, he was in my class, I think all the guys were in. So about, three 
 quarters of them I would say were in.
 
 Interviewer: Right.  Was there, were there any other fraternities besides Pipe 
 & Bowl?
 
 Dugan: Oh sure, I would say, at least a dozen, I would think.
 
 Gloria: The entire cafeteria, you know that would be, G? That one back there.  
 Is that G? What’s the one by the side? That’s G and the other is H?
 
 Interviewer: Oh, Yeah, G is the one down, down, yeah.
 
 Gloria: Well where that, that was, a decent sized building, you know, one story, 
 you know, one story. And there were, that’s where the cafeteria was, so you had 
 tables and each of those tables one on either side, was occupied by a fraternity 
 or sorority, and people sat at that table. And that’s was the, social delineation, 
 everybody sat at his or her own table.
 
 Dugan: They had a cafeteria line, where you could buy some food, but most guys, 
 brought their own sandwiches.
 
 Gloria: It was, it was a regular scene table scenario, sandwiches, unless the 
 people went to The Huddle, walked out you know walked down to the huddle and had 
 some hamburgers or whatever. But it didn’t give you much time, if you had 
 classes back to back.
 
 Interviewer: Sure.
 
 Gloria: So they went to the cafeteria.  But that’s where the social life was and 
 there were parties, only the fraternities, colleges did not have any parties.
 
 Interviewer: Right.
 
 Gloria: And the sororities and fraternities, and that’s how guys met the girls, 
 and a lot of them married.
 
 Interviewer: Well I was going to say, how did you two meet?
 
 Gloria: On the campus.
 
 Interviewer: On campus.
 
 Gloria: On the campus, yeah.
 
 Interviewer: Yeah?...You indicated before, let me check, let me just double 
 check time whether-
 
 Gloria: Yeah, that’s alright.
 
 Interviewer: You had mention before that there was a bit of activism on campus, 
 political activism, in nineteen forty-seven, nineteen forty-eight.
 
 Gloria: Forty Nine.
 
 Interviewer: Do you want to describe the context of that?
 
 Gloria: Well…the only contact that we ever had with, there was AYD, American 
 Youth for Democracy, and, I, from my observation, most of the people on the 
 college campus, were more centrists there were, staunch, parents were staunch 
 Republicans, staunch Democrats, but that didn’t influence the children on the 
 campus, if we would call them children, but there were some liberal, very 
 liberal and communistic professors, and there were students who were inclined 
 to do that as well, believe that as well, so they would, create flyers and 
 stand outside the campus. It was a chain-link fence, and when you’d get off the 
 bus they would distribute the flyers-
 
 Interviewer: Why when you got off the bus?
 
 Gloria: Because they weren’t allowed on the campus.  You couldn’t distribute 
 literature on the campus.
 
 Interviewer: Any group?
 
 Gloria: Any group.
 
 Interviewer: Not even for like a student social, or?
 
 Gloria: There weren’t any.  No, that was done all probably to, you know, the 
 fraternity took care of that or, somebody got word out, and I didn’t get the 
 impression that there was much intermingling between the fraternities, I mean, 
 if you, in one fraternity were having a party, we were not, we never thought to 
 go and we weren’t invited. So that, and that wasn’t any issue, we just didn’t 
 do it.
 
 Dugan: Right.
 
 Gloria: But there was, there were professors who were, real communist leanings 
 there was no question about it, and they made no bones about it.
 
 Dugan: Well a number of them were prosecuted, I’m not, not right at the war 
 period but there after.
 
 Gloria: I don’t remember that-
 
 Dugan: Yes they were.
 
 Gloria: But I do remember they had very liberal leanings.
 
 Interviewer: Right.  Well you indicate Don that they were investigated was that 
 on a state level or federal level?
 
 Dugan: I don’t think it was state, it was probably some, minor federal group.
 
 Gloria: I don’t remember that. I don’t think we had anybody on the campus that 
 was on McCarthy’s list, I don’t believe that, I may be-
 
 Interviewer: Well what happened to the, the AYD?
 
 Gloria: Just evaporated.
 
 Interviewer: Why?
 
 Gloria: I don’t know.  I guess there wasn’t enough activism there that, anything, 
 I don’t think the camp-, I do not think the college quieted them at all, I don’t 
 think so.  Because I think there were enough liberal professors there who would 
 were gonna tolerate it, which they were, would be right.
 
 Interviewer: Cause it’s interesting because I recall interviewing a short time 
 ago, some of the students from the 1960s,-
 
 Gloria: Okay.
 
 Interviewer: Generation and their view was that the faculty was actually rather 
 conservative, and that there was very little activism before they arrived.
 
 Gloria: Well you’re talking ten years. We’re talking…forty-eight, you’re talking 
 sixty, so um, I honestly think that the students who were on campus at that point, 
 were not politically involved.
 
 Dugan: Right.
 
 Gloria: Not at all.
 
 Dugan: Very little activism.
 
 Gloria: I don’t think that-
 
 Dugan: Almost non-existent.
 
 Gloria: Once the war was over everybody sort of settled back and didn’t want to 
 rock the boat if you will.  It was just ‘Alright let’s calm down and we’ll all 
 do’ and our parents were that way,  you know, our parents had political views 
 but they weren’t rabid about everything, they were, I think, Bob I think we’re 
 gonna see the same thing now, you’re going to see the situation where people 
 are saying ‘What’s gonna happen to me how am I going to survive this? And if I 
 do survive it I’ll be very happy for this.’  And I think that’s what they did-
 
 Interviewer: You think survival took precedence over ideology or-
 
 Gloria: No question, no question. If you were about to lose your house, or your 
 car, or you can’t put food on the table for your family I think that takes 
 precedence over, I think that’s what we’re going to see now.
 
 Interviewer: Well, thinking back to forty-eight, again to redirect it, there was 
 a recession, brief recession, when the war ended, the idea that there was full 
 prosperity after the war is, rather a myth, were there, was there concern over 
 the future?
 
 Gloria: No.
 
 Interviewer: When you came home?
 
 Gloria: No.
 
 Dugan: No.
 
 Gloria: No.
 
 Interviewer: No concern about a job?
 
 Gloria: No.
 
 Interviewer: Or possible livelihood?
 
 Dugan: No.
 
 Gloria: Not at all.  The only thing I could-
 
 Dugan: There was no reason to have, to be concerned, you could get a job, or 
 just graduate and come out and-
 
 Gloria: Merriam will appreciate this, the only job you could get you had to know 
 how to type, you used get, I was really, you could not, you could not go into an 
 office and get real, and personally, they wanted to know if you could type.  
 Horrible.  And if you could get by that one then you probably had a decent chance 
 to get a decent job.  But, if, you know, women were so poorly paid and, it was 
 different, there were definitely different rules in the offices about men and women.
 
 Interviewer: Right.  Both in conduct and in pay.
 
 Gloria: Yeah, in everything, pay, women had to go to work with hats and 
 stockings and high heels and gloves and [?], and you’d have to wear the suit and 
 you know the whole nine yards, [?]…We used, I remember when I worked one time, 
 Merriam will appreciate this too, there wasn’t any air conditioning in offices, 
 so it was the game and we wore white, we wore a blouse, everything was sent to 
 the dry cleaner or washed so people would put paper cups on, so they wouldn’t 
 get dirty, or they wouldn’t stick to the desk, and so, if it got hot, everybody 
 would wanted to, the men would open the windows, wide, and then, the women 
 would be complaining because their hair was blowing and so, down the windows went, 
 so it was a day of up and down with the windows, it was really, it was really 
 very, looking it back on it it was ridiculous, but it got, and the subways weren’t 
 air conditioned either and they were hot, you could imagine in the subway.
 
 Interviewer: I’ve been in the subways, I’ve been in the Seven line when the air 
 conditioning was out in this little train.
 
 Gloria: I can remember being on the D train once and it was so hot and we got 
 stuck in the tunnel, and there was a woman sitting there, she had white crepe 
 blouse there, it was literally shrinking on her, it was so hot in there, it was 
 impossible. So, you know, we’ve come a long way in that.
 
 Interviewer: What was your first job, real job after college?
 
 Gloria: Oh I went to work for AT&T and then I quit that after I, cause I didn’t 
 like it and I went back to grad school and I, became a teacher and a school 
 principal.  So I spent really my whole career as a teacher.
 
 Interviewer: Okay.  Don? After college?
 
 Gloria: Don?
 
 Dugan: After college?  Just went out and, walked, knocked on doors to get a job, 
 I didn’t, I didn’t have a goal, a specific, I had no experience so I couldn’t 
 offer myself, or a skill to do something special so I was, I worked for Macy’s.
 
 Gloria: After the war, Don.
 
 Dugan: After the war that’s, oh well that was after-
 
 Gloria: You went to Lindenmeyer.
 
 Dugan: Okay.
 
 Gloria: As a paper salesman.
 
 Dugan:  I got a job with Henry Lindenmeyer & Sons, an old paper distributor, I 
 was assistant to the bill manger.
 
 Gloria: And then he went-
 
 Dugan: Frank Zaruka.  And then I went to a night school.
 
 Gloria: He went to BBDO the advertising agency.
 
 Dugan: Oh I worked for the uh-
 
 Interviewer: Ah, Okay.
 
 Gloria: And he was an accounting executive on Campbell’s Soup.
 
 Interviewer: Okay.
 
 Gloria: He did the print.
 
 Dugan: Right.
 
 Gloria: And he was there and then he went, left there and he went to Nabisco, no 
 I guess the reverse, you went to Nabisco first, Lindenmeyer-Nabisco he was 
 special products there.
 
 Dugan: Right.
 
 Gloria: In that department all kinds of R&D and special products, then he went to 
 BBDO advertising agency, and he was the executive on Campbell’s I said, and then 
 he left there and he went to Sunshine Biscuit and he was director of marketing.  
 And then he left there, because they folded, and he went to, the Saint Regis paper.
 
 Dugan: They were taken over by American Tobacco Company.
 
 Gloria: Right.  And then he went to Saint Regis paper and he was a director of 
 communications there.  And he retired because they again were taken over by 
 international papers.
 
 Interviewer: Right.
 
 Gloria: And then he retired.
 
 Interviewer: Right.  Do you think your experience in the workplace was typical of many-
 
 Dugan: Oh yes.
 
 Interviewer: After the war? Yeah.
 
 Gloria: Yeah he went to Grad School, took his MB at NYU, and put-
 
 Interviewer: Did you use the G.I. Bill for your MB?
 
 Dugan: Oh yes.  All the way.
 
 Interviewer: Would it have been possible to do it without it?
 
 Dugan: Pardon?
 
 Interviewer: Would it have been possible to do so without it?
 
 Dugan: Oh yes, it may have been possible but I don’t know if it was terribly 
 probable, because, my father didn’t make a lot of money, and I had my, my Brother 
 James was just three years, we’re both in college together, so, and then I had 
 a younger sister and a younger brother, so.
 
 Gloria: I think it would have been possible but it would have been a stretch.
 
 Dugan: Yeah.
 
 Interviewer: Right.
 
 Gloria: Same in my house it would have been a stretch.
 
 Dugan: The G.I. Bill was just [?]
 
 Gloria: You know, how times have changed, I have a brother who is four years 
 younger then I am and I went to Queens, because that was the option, four years 
 later my brother went to Princeton.  So you see how things changed, dramatically.
 
 Interviewer: And that’s the story that we hear as historians of the post-war-
 
 Gloria: Yeah.
 
 Interviewer: -prosperity. 
 
 Gloria: Yeah, It wasn’t just the post-war prosperity, but it was also the 
 knowledge on the part of students, of getting loans and grants and scholarships, 
 which nobody heard of in our era.  Nobody.  Maybe they didn’t, if your had 
 parents, maybe your parents had gone to college you would have known that. But 
 we were not aware of that.
 
 Interviewer: Right. Another feature of the post-war years, going back to the 
 anxiety, fears of…the bipolar world, between the Soviets and the United States, 
 fears of communist infiltration, within the United States, the growing sense of 
 the Cold War, between these two partners, in the second world war. What were 
 your thoughts or feelings about the Russians and the Soviet Union in the forties 
 when you were at Queens College.
 
 Gloria: They were far away, and it just wasn’t making any impact on us, as far as 
 I was concerned.  We looked upon the communists, if we really gave it any thought, 
 which was, it might just a little.
 
 Interviewer: Even with Communist Professors? 
 
 Gloria: Yeah, we just didn’t, even, the communists professors whatever they were 
 espousing, it wasn’t registering with us, it was really.  I think they were 
 talking to the wall, I maybe-
 
 Dugan: One of my favorites was Vera Schlachtner, she was real communist, and she 
 was prosecuted.  But she was sweetheart, and not a sweetheart because she was 
 ugly looking or so very manly, holy smokes, she couldn’t get a man if she had to, 
 but and she was a real communist she got prosecuted.
 
 Gloria: And Shaft Tall was too.
 
 Dugan: And Shaft Tall was-
 
 Gloria: The guy openly admitted it, he married [?]campus, get out of the campus.
 
 Dugan: Yeah they were, they were prosecuted. And it was-
 
 Gloria: I don’t know if he was prosecuted.
 
 Dugan: Took a while but-
 
 Gloria: He was an out and out communist and Willy Withers in the economics 
 department, he was.
 
 Dugan: Professor Wood, did you ever have it with us, I did too, Professor 
 Withers, William Withers.
 
 Gloria: William Withers.  But there wasn’t any discussion or fear.
 
 Dugan: No not at all, almost a non-event.
 
 Gloria: It was almost a non-event, that’s pretty sad.
 
 Interviewer: Did either of you have to sign a loyalty oath?
 
 Gloria: No. No.
 
 Interviewer: A loyalty oath?
 
 Dugan: I’m sorry?
 
 Gloria: A loyalty oath.  We never signed a loyalty oath.
 
 Dugan: A Loyalty Oath?
 
 Interviewer: There was, during the 1950s-
 
 Gloria: Really?
 
 Interviewer: -a loyalty oath for students applying to Queens College.
 
 Dugan: The only loyalty oath I took was in the Grand Central Palace where I was 
 sworn in, in the army.
 
 Gloria: When I started to teach we had to take a loyalty oath.  When I started to 
 teach we did, for that, yeah, in the fifties.
 
 Dugan: No.
 
 Interviewer: Yeah, during the height of the fifties and even I think they 
 stopped using it in the sixty two-
 
 Gloria: Okay, no.
 
 Interviewer: There was a piece of paper that you had to sign.
 
 Gloria: Never.
 
 Interviewer: To attend Queens College.
 
 Gloria: Really?  That’s against academic freedom, isn’t it?  You would think.
 
 Interviewer: You would think.  Kind of,-
 
 Gloria: Kind of pretty provincial-
 
 Interviewer: -Kind of shows the pervasive influence of McCarthyism.
 
 Gloria: I mean that’s really provincial, I mean what are you, everybody gotta 
 think the same, that’s pretty boring.
 
 Interviewer: Yeah.
 
 Gloria: Well, yeah McCarthy he was another [?]
 
 Interviewer: Well you, you mentioned earlier about a the AYD, I mean, I’m sure 
 that they ran afoul of HUAC and other-
 
 Gloria: Maybe, we never knew anything about them.
 
 Interviewer: -other right, right wing groups.
 
 Dugan: American Youth for Democracy, they never, they never, whats…politicized on 
 the campus, they never, weren’t active on the campus, maybe they.
 
 Gloria: They’d have sandwich signs and signs outside campus, but never on the 
 campus.
 
 Dugan: Right.
 
 Gloria: Maybe they were told not to.
 
 Dugan: Right.
 
 Gloria: Maybe that was their limitation. I don’t know.
 
 Interviewer: Well, I mean you look back also at the experience of the kids from 
 the class of sixty-two, sixty-three and sixty-four.  They were discouraged from 
 being active on campus as well, they chose to ignore that and in some cases paid 
 a penalty with disciplinary action, and expulsion, and the threat of expulsion.  
 So I wonder if they same was not applied to [?]
 
 Gloria: Never.  I don’t think so.  Because we would have heard that.  We were 
 would have said, what happened to Joe, where is he and they’d say ‘You know, 
 he’s over there and you know, he was making a ruckus and so they threw him out.’  
 No I don’t think that.  No, I, in my experience, no.  They kind of just didn’t 
 exist, Bob, it was like going ‘Okay there they are’ maybe they had, I’m sure 
 they did have their own clique, and but they just dissipated, they evaporated 
 if you will.
 
 Dugan: They weren’t fervent believers.
 
 Gloria: I don’t know, I guess we kind of looked up them as kind of, kids who had 
 nothing else to do and that’s what they were doing you know and, kind of 
 protesting and [?] of that was I was in Italy and my daughter was there, and she 
 was going to school and the Red Brigade was out and I said ‘Oh Barbara, lets get 
 out of here.  It makes me nervous, the streets and the goose-stepping and the 
 uniforms.’  And she said ‘Mother, It’ll be lunch time, and they all go to lunch 
 and it’s gone, nothing ever happens.’
 
 Interviewer: [laughs]
 
 Gloria: You know and they weren’t, so I guess maybe that what AYD, I don’t know.  
 She said ‘At twelve O’Clock it will be all over. Cause they all go to lunch.’  
 And that’s, anyway that’s the story of Queens College I was shocked to see how 
 enormous it was and I was shocked to see, not shocked, I guess, awakened to the 
 fact that there was so many ethnic groups, I mean, hundreds of different people, 
 kinds of people.  And I think its great, because it’s a one, it’s a leg up and I 
 think it’s terrific.
 
 Interviewer: Good.  Good.  Well I think that’s where we’re going to conclude, 
 unless theres any final comments you want to make.
 
 Gloria: No, we enjoyed it, it was fun, Don enjoyed it I’m sure.
 
 Dugan: Yeah.
 
 Interviewer: Thank you both for-
 
 Gloria: You’re more then welcome.
 
 Interviewer: -the time in your house, and for, you know hosting myself and the 
 students-
 
 Gloria: It’s fine, no problem.
 
 Interviewer: -for the project, and we’ll close out there, thank you again.
 
 Gloria: You’re welcome.
 
 Dugan: Our Pleasure.
 
 Gloria: Now what-
 
 [END OF TAPE]
 
 
End of Tape 03 of 03