00:00-Noah-For the sake of this interview please state your name,  and where you are from.
00:07-Veteran- Hi, my name is Bill Casey. Im originally from Lawrence Mass and im currently living in Brewster.

00:11-Paul- Were you drafted, or did you enlist?

00:15-Veteran- I enlisted in the service in 1967 and I was in the service for three years  from 1967-1970.

00:22-Paul- Why did you enlist?

00:25-Veteran- Well, I was in my sophomore year in college. And after my first semester at college… basically, I wasnt doing what I was supposed to do in college mark wise.  So, it was either I was going to get drafted,  or enlist to get what I wanted to do in the service. So thats why I enlisted.

00:48-Paul- How did you feel about being drafted?

00:50-Veteran- At the time, when I was drafted , I thought ‘oh boy’ (laughs) I didn't think I was going to like going along with the program . But, thats why I decided to enlist, and get what I wanted to do for the three years I was in the service.

01:13-Noah- How did your family react when you joined?

01:15-Veteran- My family, at the time was actually happy that I joined because, at the time you really didn't know what you wanted to do and there were all kinds of different scenarios  that were going on in the country. If you went to the left or the right you could've gotten yourself in a lot of trouble. So at the time they were happy with my decision.

  01:42-Noah- What was your life like before you went into the military?

01:44-Veteran- Like I said before I went to war i was at Lyndon State College,  in Vermont. It was a nice quiet place and like all college students we were raising hell on the weekends and just doing whatever you wanted and hacing a gay old time for yourself.

02:16-Paul- What was occupation before the war?

02:18-Veteran- My occupation prior to the war was being a student, a student during the year and in the summer I worked on a mill in Lawrence,.

02:26-Noah-How old were you when you joined? How prepared were you for the war? Mentally and Physically.

02:30-Veteran- I was twenty years old when I joined, Physically I was in great shape  because four or five years prior to that, my high school years I played Baseball, I played basketball, I was also involved in football but I also ran track. So it was a situation where I was physically I was very well prepared. Mentally, I wasn't as prepared mentally as I was physically. As I found out as I entered Basic training, you don't do what you want to do. And I was used to over the course of my lifetime doing what I want to do. You know, back in those days in the 60’s I was a rebel. I did what I wanted, said what I wanted, and didn't want to answer to anybody. Whether it was my teacher or my parents, I was living the life of Riley. 

03:36-Noah- What was the most important thing you left behind?

03:40-Veteran-  The hardest thing to leave behind (pause). Well, of course it was hard to leave my parents. I had a girlfriend at the time who later on became my wife, and that was the hard part.

03:58-Paul- In class, we talk about killing and death in the war, what was your darkest memory of the war?

04:00-Veteran- (long pause) My darkest memory of the war was seeing a lot of the guys you see on a constant basis dying. You live with them, you eat with them, you played with them, you joked with them,. And one day they were with you and the next day they were gone. One morning there right there next to you and then you come back at night,  you know and they were killed. Sometimes it was by the enemy but most of the time they were killed by their own troops. Because it was a situation like anything else, A doesn't like B, B doesn't like C. And when situations like that come up obviously  someone pushed you too far and there was a lot of stress involved  and as an army journalist/Photographer a lot of the times I had to take pictures of guys that were killed in their groups.

05:25-Paul- What helped you get through this?

05:28-Veteran- Basically what happened was what helped me through the war  was the whole time I was there  was in the back of my head I had the thought that I had to get home no matter what it took. I wanted to get home to see my wife, and I wanted to go home to see my daughter who I didn't see until I she was four months old so that kept me going. And that was basically it.

05:54-Noah- How did people around you react to battle?

05:58-Veteran- The people I was with, they reacted to battle in a different way . Basically you were numb about the situation. A lot of the time it was a situation where you didn't think it was real. And even though you saw a lot of guts , and even though you saw the blood and guts, then it became real. And it probably didn't sync in at the time , even if you we three or four months, it was a repetitive thing with people getting injured you know,  and seeing it on a daily basis and after a while it just became human nature  and it gets to you.

06:44-Noah- describe a time you were close to death.

06:46-Veteran- Basically, in my situation,  in a situation where I was close to death,  was basically on a daily basis because I had to fly in a helicopter everyday from base to base . You'd hear the ‘ping ping ‘ of people shooting as you went over the roadway  going from one air base to another. And then a lot of times you'd end up on top of the mountains, at the signal station, and the enemy would be at the bottom of the mountain shooting up  to the top of the mountain trying to blow up the signal site.  So those were some of the instances where I was close to death.

07:36-Paul- Did you ever get to keep in contact with your family?

07:38-Veteran- I kept contact with my family. I wrote to them,  on a daily basis. And you didn't always get the letters back, that you wrote on a daily basis , they were probably three weeks behind the time. I was able to go into some of the major cities in vietnam. I remember this one phone calls I made which was always an important one and I also remember on… when my baby daughter was born I was able to go into the UFO which was in benwa, a place in Vietnam. I was able to make a call back home. I was able to call my parents in Lawrence while I was over there, so it was a good time.

08:31-How did you, and your fellow soldiers support each other during this time?

08:37-Veteran- well basically, (pause) we all enjoyed music,  so we were all able to compare and listen to music. We all were also big into sports,  you know you had your big rivalries like the Celtics and Lakers. The Celtics were going great at the time, The lakers were going great at the time,. I was with a lot of people from New York. The boston Patriots were going great at the time. The New York  Jets were going great at the time so different rivalries were talked about on a daily basis. We played a lot of cards,  when we could, on our hours. And were were also to play football, and basketball against each other. And we did a lot of drinking (laughs) we did a lot of that. And that was basically what we did in our free time. 

09:40-Noah- Some people describe the smell of war, how would you describe it?
10:00- Veteran- If you've ever smelled like a rotten carcass of an animal or something like that, thats basically what it smells like. 

10:10- Noah- Describe a typical day in the military.

10:11- Veteran- Okay, a typical day in the military you get up, they wake you up, you listen to taps, you know they played like, well they'd wake up in the morning with a bugle. They would be played, and then you'd go for breakfast. And then you'd (pause), in my situation i'd have to get in a jeep everyday and have to travel 5 to 10 minutes to the air base and then i'd have to jump in a helicopter,(pause) and then wherever  we were going it would be a 10 minute ride, a 15 minute ride, a 20 minute ride, or even a 30 minute ride. And,(10:59) we traveled to the base and what wed do is I would look for different stories to write about what was going on and also what I had to do was take pictures of the different signal sights, because what happened a lot of times with the signal sights was they were blown up on a daily or weekly basis. Then you would have to rebuild that signal sight. So everytime a signal sight was rebuilt, um we would have to take a picture of it. And then sometimes, (pause) we'd have to stay over at the base. (pause) We’d have to spend the night there then come back the next day  and start the routine all over again.

11:44- Paul- What was your first thought when you saw combat?

11:46- Veteran- My, My first, I had always seen from WWI and WWII on tv, and you think its (stutters) surreal, you almost think its fake. But the minute you're shot at, for the first time you know its a situation where its not fake.And its forreal , and like I said before you see the blood and guts, and you see people being (...)  and you see people being killed and its not a pleasant situation (pause) and you know well thats about it.

12:30-Paul- Where were some of the places you went overseas?

12:32- Veteran- SOme of the places I went overseas I got to go and take a one week rest and recuperation, um they give you one while you're in the country during that time  period and I also, two different times when I was over there  I got to go to Yokota, Japan. Because working I was an information specialist, and taking pictures with that you'd take them over to Japan and you'd film over there, and well Japan got to at times.


13:10-Noah- How were holidays different serving in the military?

13:16- Veteran-  Well holidays (pause) holidays were a very very different situation.  You were away from your family number one, okay and it was one of those situations its a lonely place. you know you're at war seeing people all around you and they're not happy about it, you're not happy about it. It was just a lonely place because you're basically thinking of ‘what are they doing back home?’ Thanksgiving was hard, Christmas was hard, New Years and then you know your birthday . And my favorite one that I really missed was, well I’m Irish and St. Patricks day was a big deal to me but we made up for it with a lot of drinking at the time so.

14:18-Noah-  How much did you care about what you were fighting for?

14:24-Veteran- Well, basically at the time it was a situation where you cared what you were fighting for when you saw a situation. Like part of our duty over there was taking care of an orphanage. And at first you didn't think too much about what you were fighting for over there you were just trying to help these people. But then we worked in an orphanage on a weekly basis and we'd go and we'd bring them food, and what would happen is the enemies would steal food from them at night, and they would steal the bedding. And there were different situations like that so. That made it a little more worthwhile.

15:14-Paul- What's the most difficult subject for you to talk about?  Why?

15:20-Veteran- Well seeing guys killed (pause) seeing guys you became friends with and being friendly with, and like one week you might be having a beer with, you might be sitting next to them, eating with them, and then a day, a week, a month, and three months later, they're not with you. You know they were either killed or ended up in the hospital headed back home on an airplane.

15:48- Paul- What were your future plans after the military

15:52-Veteran- After the military, being a journalist  and a broadcaster, thats what I thought I was going to do when I got out of the service. But, when I got out of the service it didn't work that way (laughs). I ended up becoming a landscaper which I don’t regret.  And it was a good life.

16:10-Noah- How did serving in the military change your life?

16:14-Veteran-(Pause) I think serving in the military changed my life, because before I went in the military I wanted to be a teacher. But after being in the military, it changed me and sometimes I think it wasn't for the better, it made you a different person because of what you saw, and in that way I looked at life as being happy go lucky and  that type of thing. But after being in the military, and being it Vietnam for a year it changes you. Unfortunately, it wasn't for the better and in my situation, I don't think it changed me for the better.

17:08-Noah- What was your favorite memory from the war?

17:10-Veteran-  (long pause) my favorite memory from being in Vietnam was being with the good friends I made. But, my very favorite memory was helping out the kids at the orphanage. Seeing their smile from a glass of water or even a cookie. Just a piece of candy or something like that. Seeing the smile on their face is something we took for granite, it meant the world to them so that made me the happiest


17:44-Paul- Did you have any regrets during the war?


17:48-Veteran- Nope, I can honestly say I had no regrets during the war.


17:52-Paul- How did your war experience change you as a person?

17:56-Veteran- Well like I said before in some respects  it made me more understanding of people, and it also gave me a lot of patience (chuckles) and believe me everything in the military to hurry up and then you waited. No matter what it was you had to wait in line to eat, you know you basically had to wait in line for everything. So in that way it changed me a lot. 

18:26-Noah- If you could change any decision you made, what would it be?

18:30-Veteran-(stutters) I think if I could change any decision for the military, it would probably of been that I did not enlist in the military. I would have studied more in school, and I wouldve stayed in school.

18:55-Noah- How did you adjust to daily life when you returned home?

19:01-Veteran-  When I returned home it was very very tough to adjust to daily life and everything we read or heard in the newspapers, or heard on TV, they all considered anybody or anything that had to do with being ‘baby killers’  (skips) and you know that wasn't the case. We were over there trying to help these people out, and unfortunately a lot of the people in Vietnam didn't want to be helped  they were satisfied with the way their lives were but we were trained in the military to go over there and help them out, and thats what we did.

19:46-Paul- If you knew then, what you knew now, what choices would you have made?

19:50-Veteran- Well, if I knew then what I knew now I wouldve stayed in school (laughs) and I wouldn't have gone into the service. I would have studied harder and  just, I would've done that instead.

20:05-Paul- How did you feel when the war ended?

20:07-Veteran- When the war ended I was very very very happy it was… No war is right and that was not a uh just war.

20:30-Noah- What comes to mind when I say the word ‘Vietnam’?

20:32-Veteran- When you say the Word ‘Vietnam’, its a beautiful place. It was a beautiful country but unfortunately it was ravaged by war. All the bombings we did over there, you know we ruined the countryside. Also mentally, and physically we did a job to the people over there. So in that situation it wasn't right. 

21:04-Noah- If your son or daughter came up to you and said they wanted to join the military, what advice would you give?

21:10-Veteran- I would say to them that I would not want them to join the military

21:23-Paul- You said you were a photographer in the war, what was that like?

21:27-Veteran- Being a photographer in the war was very very interesting. It was a situation where I traveled like I said everyday, in a helicopter, and my job was to go take pictures of anything that was happening on a daily basis. I also had to take pictures of signal sights, which were getting blown up. So I had to take pictures and they were sent back to Washington and they were kept in the archives of Washington for future use. So I got to take pictures of the “change of Command” ceremony , I met a lot of interesting people, and I even got to take pictures of a national guard outfit from Connecticut, I got to see their Change of Command ceremony, and what was fascinating about that is they protested going to Vietnam in Connecticut. And they made it so they didn't want to go as a whole unit and went together. And when they got to Vietnam, I was at the airbase taking pictures of them, and the general from our outfit came to greet them. And basically, they all turned their backs to him, so I ended up taking pictures of one of the most bizarre situations that happened in Vietnam. They all turned their backs to the general and started chanting that they didn't want to be there, and so the pictures I had  were going to be turned over and released to the press that night but I got a call from one of the generals that if I let those pictures go I would be in trouble .(laughs)

23:17-Paul- So you got to see more than the average soldier?

23:20-Veteran- Yes, I did and it was good because the experiences I had going and traveling all over Vietnam was unlike some of the other guys I were with. They were stuck in the same area day in and day out. But I got to travel all over Vietnam to see all different parts of the country, and that was very interesting.

23:42-Noah- What was the most interesting story you covered?

23:44-Veteran- The most interesting story I covered was the one I just went over, when I was talking about the National guard outfit that they didn't want to be in Vietnam, and they were on the airbase, and they turned their backs on the generals and started chanting.

24:07-Paul- Did that keep you out of combat?

24:09-Veteran- No, taking pictures wasn't everyday,  and an everyday combat thing. It was a situation where, some days you'd be around combat and some days you wouldn't be around combat so; it was a 50/50 situation. Probably half the time  I was there I was around combat  and half the time I wasn't. 

24:37-Noah- Were you awarded any awards, medals, or citations?

24:40-Veteran-  I was just awarded the army commendation medal  at the end of the service but for my time in the annual service. It was basically  the army commendation medal was presented to me I had distinguished myself with exceptional merital service, supporting military operations against communist rests in the republic of Vietnam.  And I was over there from the period of 1968-1969. And I was over there when  all hell was breaking loose over there.

25:30-Paul- Now, who was the president at that time?

25:32-Veteran- The president at that time was President Johnson.

25:35-Noah- Was there something special you did for goodluck?

25:39-Veteran- The thing I did for goodluck everyday was I had an old Celtics jersey  that every morning before I went to breakfast I rubbed the back of it for goodluck .

25:58-Paul- Did you have a personal diary?

26:00-Veteran- I didn't keep a personal diary for the whole year but  what what I did was at the end of my, before I was about to come home I went over everything I did for the 364 days I was there. I didn't end up  staying the whole year I got to come home a day early. So right before that I wrote down everything that had happened there over the year. And unfortunately when I got home I left my house, got married, and when I moved out my mother somehow threw it away (laughs)

26:44-Paul- How did you feel when you were allowed to come home?

26:46-Veteran- It was the most ecstatic feeling in the world. When they said you could go home it was just like, its an indescribable feeling

27:00-Noah-What would you do if you were asked to go back?

27:03-Veteran- (long pause) If I was asked to go back and I knew then what I knew now then I wouldn't of done it. 

27:17-Paul- How did they prepare you for the war?

27:20-Veteran- Basically I got prepared for the war I went to  school in Port Benjamin in Indiana where I had eight weeks of journalism school , and I also had eight weeks of photography school there. Then, I was stationed at Fort Jackson, South Carolina for about five to six months before I was sent over to Vietnam. And I got to write for a local newspaper at the local station so, I was very well prepared going over.

27:55-Noah- Did you make any close friends over in Vietnam?

27:59-Veteran- Yes, a lot of them. Some people were from Massachusetts . But actually, the guys I became closest with where the guys from California. What the situation was like I mentioned it before it was a big rivalry between the Celtics and the Lakers and these guys were big Laker fans and I was a big Celtics fan so we were always comparing those and joking with each other. So I was almost more friendly with people from California than I was with people from Massachusetts. 

28:30-Noah- Did your military experience change your view on War?

28:32-Veteran-  Yes, I would say it influences me. All war is crazy, its a bunch of generals who send young men out to war, while they sit back, tell you what to do and you have to do it. Its a situation where all the cooperationa are making all the money off young guys going to war.

29:10-Paul- Some people believe you should only have to serve two years, what do you think?

29:12-Veteran- Yes, I think that would've been very acceptable for me at the time. When I enlisted it was for three, and it was probably one year too long.

29:30-Noah- What is the worst thing about the military?

29:32-Veteran- The worst thing about the military is, I think I had mentioned it before there were so many people in different outfits and so many groups . Its a situation where they hurry you up to wait, you wait to eat, you're always waiting whether its to get shot or whatever.
